Fall 2018
---------

The classes are a full term class of 16 weeks. The semester calendar is posted at

<http://registrar.indiana.edu/official-calendar/official-calendar-fall.shtml>

The class begins Aug 20 and Ends Dec 14th. Please do not ask us if you
can leave prior to Dec 14th as we do not have the authority to do
so. TA's for the class must be available till the grades have been
posted to the registrar (This year this is Dec 17th).

### Registrar

At time of writing the following classes were listed in the IU
Registrar for Fall 2018. The classes may change and new classes may be
added. We recommend that you check for updates at:

* <http://registrar.indiana.edu/browser/soc4188/index.shtml>

However, we list some of the information also here so it is easier for
you to locate the courses in the different departments which include
INFO and ENGR.

### ENGR-E 516 Residential

- <http://registrar.indiana.edu/browser/soc4188/ENGR/ENGR-E516.shtml>
- Topic: Engineering Cloud Computing
- von Laszewski, Gregor
- 3 CR
- RSTR ARR ARR ARR
- Class is taught online
- Discussion (DIS), participation in discussion is mandatory and
  graded
- 36048 RSTR 11:15A-12:15P F I2 150

### ENGR-E 516 Online

- <http://registrar.indiana.edu/browser/soc4188/ENGR/ENGR-E516.shtml>
-   Topic: Engineering Cloud Computing
-   von Laszewski, Gregor
-   3 CR
-   36046 RSTR ARR ARR ARR
-   This is a 100% online class taught by IU Bloomington. No on-campus
    Class meetings are required. A distance education fee may apply;
    check your campus bursar website for more information. A distance
    education fee may apply; check your campus bursar website for more
    information

### ENGR-E 534 Residential

-   <http://registrar.indiana.edu/browser/soc4188/ENGR/ENGR-E534.shtml>
-   Topic: Big Data Applications
-   3 CR
-   RSTR ARR ARR ARR Fox G
-   class open to graduates only; class taught online
-   Discussion (DIS)
-   14891 RSTR 09:30A-10:45A F I2 130 Fox G
-   class meets with INFO-I 423 and I 523

### INFO-I 523 Residential

-   <http://registrar.indiana.edu/browser/soc4188/INFO/INFO-I523.shtml>
-   Topic: Big Data Appls & Analytics
-   3 CR
-   ARR ARR ARR Fox G
-   Class open to graduates only, class taught online
-   Discussion (DIS)
-   11857 RSTR 09:30A-10:45A F I2 130 Fox G
-   class meets with INFO-I 423 and ENGR-E 534

### INFO-I 523 Online

-   Topic: Big Data Appls & Analytics
-   3 CR
-   11858 RSTR ARR ARR ARR Fox G
-   Class open to Data Science majors only
-   This is a 100% online class taught by IU Bloomington. No on-campus
    Class meetings are required. A distance education fee may apply;
    check your campus bursar website for more information. A distance
    education fee may apply; check your campus bursar website for more
    information

### INFO-I 423 Residential

-   Topic: Big Data Appls & Analytics
-   <http://registrar.indiana.edu/browser/soc4188/INFO/INFO-I423.shtml>
-   3 CR
-   CLSD RSTR ARR ARR ARR Fox G
-   class open to undergraduates only, class taught online
-   Discussion (DIS)
-   CLSD 12403 RSTR 09:30A-10:45A F I2 130 Fox G
-   class meets with INFO-I 523 and ENGR-E 534

### Calendar

| # | Event |     | Date |
| - | ---- | ---- | ---: |
|   | Full Term           | | 16 Weeks |
|   | *Begins*	          | | Mon, Aug 20 |
| 1 | **Bio, Notebook**   | assigned | Mon, Aug 20 |
| 1 | **Bio, Notebook**   | due  | Mon, Aug 27 9am |
| 2 | **Technologies**    | assigned | 2 weekly, due Fri 9am |
| 2 | **Chapter**         | assigned | Mon, Aug 27 during class |
| 4 | **Project**         | selection    | Mon, Sept 3 |
|   | *Labor Day*	      |  | Mon, Sept 3 |
| 4 | **Project** |update | Oct 5, 9am EST |
|   | *Fall Break*	      | | Oct 5 - Oct 7 |
|   | *Auto W*	          | | Sun, Oct 21 |
| 4 | **Project** |update | Nov 2, 9am EST |
| 4 | **Chapter** |due | Nov 2, 9am EST |
|   | *Thanksgiving*	  |    | Nov 18 - Nov 25 |
| 4 | **Project**         | due	       | Nov 26 |
| 4 | **Project** (no penalty) | improvements | Nov 26 - Dec 3 |
| 4 | **Project** (with penalty) | improvements | Dec 4 - Dec 7|
| 4 | *Grading*	          |  | Dec 1 - Dec 14 |
|   | *Ends*	          |  | Fri, Dec 14 |

Please note some additional remarks to this table:

* The firs number indicates which  assignment a date relates to. Note
  we only have 4 assignments.

* In certain cases the TAs will contact you between Dec 1st - Dec 14th to ask
  you for clarifications, live demos and possibly suggest improvements
  to your project. If that is the case we expect that you are
  available during that time period to provide feedback and improve
  your project.

* No penalty project improvements can only be conducted if a full
  report has been handed in on Nov 26

* Penalty project improvements often lead to a better grade although a
  penalty applies. 

* Any project not handed in on Nov 26 runs the risk of you getting a
  grade reduction or an incomplete in case significant changes need to
  be done. This can be avoided by working on your project on a weekly
  basis.

* Good projects have typically worked thought the semester with the TAs and
  checked in their code and document regularly.

* We will not grade **any** of your assignments if you have not passed
  successfully the plagiarism certification.

* Additional assignments may be added throughout the semester.
