Hardware for IoT Projects
=========================

When teaching programming you may find yourself in a situation that
things can be done on your computer, but you may not want to install
programs that help you to learn programming on your computer. However,
we have a solution (or several) for you. We will have some fun with
hardware for IoT that at the same time can be used to teach you some
very elementary skills in programming. However, if you would rather use
your computer you certainly can do this too.

We see the following arguments for using IoT hardware:

-   You will have fun with inexpensive hardware

-   You will get hands on experience with IOT devices

-   You will learn how to program in python

-   You can keep your current computer unchanged

-   You will get experience with two platforms esp8266 and Raspberry PI
    3

-   You can customise your choices by conducting some fun projects.

-   You have the opportunity to find alternative hardware choices such
    as the WiPy or the ESP32. You may find cheaper or better
    alternatives if you buy kits when they are available. And learn in
    getting an overview about such devices and kits.

*Note:* Ordering from overseas suppliers may take significant time, so
make sure to plan ahead. Prices given here are done to provide an
estimate, they may vary.

Raspberry Pi 3
--------------

The raspberry PI 3 is a very good development platform. With its base
price of \$35 it is quite a bargain. You will need some additional
components to make sure you can use it. Please be reminded to never
connect or power the raspberry with your computers USB port. It draws
some significant amperage and we do not want you to destroy your
computer. We recommend that you buy a certified power adapter. The price
is so cheap that you could even create your own mini cluster as a
project. We do not recommend any older versions of Raspberry as they are
less powerful and do not contain built-in Bluetooth or WiFi.

*Configuration:*

-   \$37.50 [Pi
    3](https://www.amazon.com/Raspberry-Model-A1-2GHz-64-bit-quad-core/dp/B01CD5VC92/ref=sr_1_1?s=pc&ie=UTF8&qid=1499251061&sr=1-1&keywords=raspberry+pi+3)

-   \$7.69
    [Case](https://www.amazon.com/Eleduino-Raspberry-Model-Acrylic-Enclosure/dp/B01CQRROLW/ref=sr_1_7?s=electronics&ie=UTF8&qid=1499251106&sr=1-7&keywords=raspberry+pi+3+case)

-   \$7.99 [Power
    Adapter](https://www.amazon.com/Enokay-Supply-Raspberry-Charger-Adapter/dp/B01MZX466R/ref=sr_1_3?ie=UTF8&qid=1498443576&sr=8-3&keywords=raspberry+pi+power+adapter+micro+usb+switch)
    This is an aftermarket power adapter. Lots uof us use this one.

-   \$6.99 [HDMI
    cable](https://www.amazon.com/AmazonBasics-High-Speed-HDMI-Cable-Standard/dp/B014I8SSD0/ref=sr_1_3?ie=UTF8&qid=1499253502&sr=8-3&keywords=hdmi+cable)

-   Monitor/TV with hdmi

-   SD Card, 8GB minimum, 32GB maximum

*Advantages:*

-   Full Linux like OS based on debian

-   Good environment for learning Linux and Python

-   Reasonable interfaces to IoT sensors

-   excellent camera support

-   excellent choice of expansion packages including Grove Sensors that
    make it easy to attach sensors and actuators. An example package is
    the [Grove Starter
    Kit](https://www.amazon.com/GrovePi-Starter-Kit-Dexter-Industries/dp/B00TXTZ5SQ/ref=pd_lpo_vtph_147_bs_tr_img_1?_encoding=UTF8&psc=1&refRID=45QX6XSNZAG1NT8NES79)
    for about \$90

*Disadvantages:*

-   We tried the Windows IoT package and were not impressed by it. This
    is not an issue of the Raspberry, but the Windows IoT platform

ESP8266 Robot Car Kit
---------------------

The ESP8266 has many variants. Some of which are difficult to interface
with. However, this does not apply for the ESP8266 NodeMCU. This board
is originally flashed with *Lua*, however it can easily be reflashed
with MicroPython. In addition it is often offered as part of a platform
to develop a robot car. There are arguably better kits available, but
the price of \$24 for the entire kit is hard to beat. Unfortunately the
version of python, as well as the limited memory make the esp8266 not a
full fledged platform for python programming and you will quickly see
its limitations. Interfacing with it, however, as an IoT device will
gain you a lot of insights.

*Configuration:*

-   \$14.99 [esp8266 &
    shield](https://www.amazon.com/KOOKYE-ESP8266-NodeMcu-ESP-12E-Expansion/dp/B01C6MR62E/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1499251895&sr=8-1&keywords=esp8266+robot+car)
    or [esp8266 &
    shield](https://www.amazon.com/Makerfocus-ESP8266-ESP-12E-Development-Expansion/dp/B01MU4XQUN/ref=sr_1_2?ie=UTF8&qid=1499252002&sr=8-2&keywords=esp8266+motor+shield)

-   \$12.59
    [Chasis](https://www.amazon.com/Emgreat-Chassis-Encoder-wheels-Battery/dp/B00GLO5SMY/ref=pd_rhf_se_s_cp_10?_encoding=UTF8&pd_rd_i=B00GLO5SMY&pd_rd_r=77XYGK6BE54FGDTGQ0AC&pd_rd_w=FNQFl&pd_rd_wg=wKMdb&psc=1&refRID=77XYGK6BE54FGDTGQ0AC)

-   4 \* AA Rechargable Batteries & charger

Optionally you may want to get additional sensors such as wheel Encoders

-   [Wheel
    Encoder](https://www.amazon.com/Wheel-Encoder-Kit-Robot-Car/dp/B00NPWGEIM/ref=sr_1_4?s=toys-and-games&ie=UTF8&qid=1499254488&sr=1-4&keywords=speed+sensor+robot+car+wheel)

*Advantages:*

-   Very low price for what it can do

-   We have macOS software available that makes it easy to setup (Other
    tutorials for other platforms are available on the internet, you can
    contribute by creating documentation we distribute in class for
    points)

-   -

Sensor Kit
----------

It is fun to attach sensors to your IoT board. There are many kits
available and we encourage you to do comparisons. One such kit is

-   \$29.99 [Elegoo 37
    Sensors](https://www.amazon.com/Elegoo-Upgraded-Modules-Tutorial-Arduino/dp/B01MG49ZQ5/ref=sr_1_7?s=electronics&ie=UTF8&qid=1499251441&sr=1-7&keywords=elegoo)

However it does not include a breadboard like other kits. Hence we
recommend that you get a breadboard as it makes experimenting easier.

-   \$5.68 [small bread board and
    wires](https://www.amazon.com/Elegoo-Premium-Female-tie-points-breadboard/dp/B06XB8TZVC/ref=sr_1_23?s=electronics&ie=UTF8&qid=1499251600&sr=1-23&keywords=elegoo)

Fish Kit
--------

-   \$29.99
    [shark](https://www.amazon.com/Swimmer-Inflatable-Flying-Replacement-Balloon/dp/B00658LN3E/ref=pd_bxgy_21_img_2?_encoding=UTF8&pd_rd_i=B00658LN3E&pd_rd_r=F71N2YCYE6Z0BCCEPQJC&pd_rd_w=AwYab&pd_rd_wg=rHTnv&psc=1&refRID=F71N2YCYE6Z0BCCEPQJC)

    -   cheaper balloons leak

    -   before assembly and putting gas in, make sure components work.

    -   gas will last typically for one week

    -   \$39.99 gas can be purchased in party store

-   2 g9 servo

-   soldering (for cable, so cheap one will do)

-   pins

-   esp

-   double sided scotch tape

-   hot glue gun

-   paper clips

Alternative components
----------------------

### Esp8266 Alternatives

Two models are good. Adafruit has some added features, but may need
soldering

-   \$8.79
    [NodeMCU](https://www.amazon.com/HiLetgo-Version-NodeMCU-Internet-Development/dp/B010O1G1ES/ref=sr_1_3?s=electronics&ie=UTF8&qid=1499251149&sr=1-3&keywords=esp8266)

-   \$16.95 [Adafruit Feather](https://www.adafruit.com/product/2821)

### Car Parts Alternatives

-   \$14.59 [Car
    Chasis](https://www.amazon.com/Ardokit-Chassis-Encoder-Battery-Arduino/dp/B00K5OWHXO/ref=sr_1_3?s=electronics&ie=UTF8&qid=1499251712&sr=1-3&keywords=robot+car)

-   \$22.88 [Car Chasis and
    Arduino](https://www.amazon.com/VKmaker-Avoidance-tracking-Chassis-Ultrasonic/dp/B01CXVA6IO/ref=sr_1_6?s=electronics&ie=UTF8&qid=1499251770&sr=1-6&keywords=robot+car)

### Simple sensors

Simple sensors can be attached to the boards with cables (that you need
to purchase separately). Examples include

-   [Elegoo 37 sensor
    kit](https://www.amazon.com/Elegoo-Sensor-Module-Arduino-MEGA/dp/B009OVGKTQ/ref=sr_1_5?s=electronics&ie=UTF8&qid=1500678010&sr=1-5&keywords=grove+sensor)

-   [Breadboard
    Cable](https://www.amazon.com/Breadboard-Wires-Aoyoho-Multicolored-Jumper/dp/B01GK2Q4ZQ/ref=sr_1_1?s=electronics&ie=UTF8&qid=1500678142&sr=1-1&keywords=bread+board+cab%3Be)

### Grove Sensors

Grove sensors have ready-made cables that make them easy to attach to
the Raspberry PI. However, they are more expensive. You still need a
Raspberry PI. No soldering iron and no breadboards are required.

-   [Grove Starter
    Set](https://www.seeedstudio.com/Grove-Starter-Kit-for-Arduino-p-1855.html)

-   [Seed Studio Grove
    Sensors](https://www.seeedstudio.com/category/Grove-c-1003.html)

-   [Grove Shield for
    NodeMCU](https://www.seeedstudio.com/Grove-Base-Shield-for-NodeMCU-p-2513.html)

-   [Grove
    Cable](http://www.switchdoc.com/2016/02/tutorial-intro-to-grove-connectors-for-arduinoraspberry-pi-projects/)

Alternative Hardware and Sensors
--------------------------------

In this section we will list a number of alternative hardware products
that we are exploring. If you have used them, please help us improving
these sections.

### Small Footprint Battery Power

The following board provides to the Raspberry Pi a lithium battery power
pack expansion board. It is powered by two 18650 Li-ion batteries
providing steady. A 4-LED indicator indicates the level of charge. The
board costs \$16.99.

* <https://www.sunfounder.com/plus-power-module.html>
