# Acknowledgements {#S:acknowledgements}

In many cases you not only want but must to include an acknowledgement
section. In some cases you may be tempted to eliminate this section as
you think you are out of space and the acknowledgement section may give
you some additional space. This however is the wrong strategy and you
should not do this. Instead you should shorten your paper elsewhere and
leave enough space for acknowledgements.

In some cases where you get financial support from a university or a
funding agency for a project such as from NIH or NSF specific
information **must** be included. The best way is to verify with your
coauthors. Additional acknowledgements may have to be added and you need
te evaluate if for example significant help on the paper or the work
that lead up to the paper warrants co-authorship.

An issue that we have seen often is for example when a professor has
helped significantly on the paper but is not properly acknowledged. This
can even lead to the professor asking you to remove him from the
acknowledgement. A bad acknowledgement example is the following:

> We like to thank Professor Zweistein for his help in teaching me how
> to write the paper.

We do not think that the professor will be happy with this
acknowledgement as it sounds like the only thing that was provided was
the help on that you should have done anyways without the help of the
professor. Ask yourself, if he introduced you to the field, has helped
you with preparing the text, has given you insights, has corrected
things in your paper, made suggestions. So instead of the previous maybe
a more general term such as *helped with the paper* would be more
appropriate. If you feel like your professor did not help you, leaving
it off is more appropriate. In some cases you may wan to invite your
professor to become a co-author. In some cases you may want to even
include this handbook as a citation.

