![No](images/no.png)

Deploying enterprise applications has been always challenging. Without
consistent and reliable processes and practices, it would be impossible
to track and measure the deployment artifacts, which code-files and
configuration data have been deployed to what servers and what level of
unit and integration tests have been done among various components of
the enterprise applications. Deploying software to cloud is much more
complex, given *Dev-Op* teams do not have extensive access to the
infrastructure and they are forced to follow the guidelines and tools
provided by the cloud companies. In recent years, Continuous Integration
(*CI*) and Continuous Deployment (*CD*) are the *Dev-Op* mantra for
delivering software reliably and consistently.

While *CI/CD* process is, as difficult as it gets, monitoring the
deployed applications is emerging as new challenge, especially, on an
infrastructure that is sort of virtual with VMs in combination with
containers. Continuous Monitoring (*CM*) is somewhat new concept, that
has gaining rapid popularity and becoming integral part of the overall
*Dev-Op* functionality. Based on where the software has been deployed,
continuous monitoring can be as simple as, monitoring the behavior of
the applications to as complex as, end-to-end visibility across
infrastructure, heart-beat and health-check of the deployed applications
along with dynamic scalability based on the usage of these applications.
To address this challenge, building robust monitoring pipeline process,
would be a necessity. Continuous Monitoring aspects get much better
control, if they are thought as early as possible and bake them into the
software during the development. We can provide much better tracking and
analyze metrics much closer to the application needs, if these aspects
are considered very early into the process. Cloud companies aware of
this necessity, provide various *Dev-Op* tools to make *CI/CD* and
continuous monitoring as easy as possible. While, some of these tools
and aspects are provided by the cloud offerings, some of them must be
planned and planted into our software.

At high level, we can think of a simple pipeline to achieve consistent
and scalable deployment process. *CI/CD* and Continuous Monitoring
Pipeline:

*Step 1 - Continuous Development - Plan, Code, Build and Test:*
Planning, Coding, building the deployable artifacts - code,
configuration, database, etc. and let them go through the various types
of tests with all the dimensions - technical to business and internal to
external, as automated as possible. All these aspects come under
Continuous Development.

*Step 2 - Continuous Improvement - Deploy, Operate and Monitor:* Once
deployed to production, how these applications get operated - bug and
health-checks, performance and scalability along with various high
monitoring - infrastructure and cold delays due to on-demand
VM/container instantiations by the cloud offerings due to the nature of
the dynamic scalability of the deployment and selected hosting options.
Making necessary adjustments to improve the overall experience is
essentially called Continuous Improvement.
