# IBM Watson :o:

[IBM Watson](https://www.ibm.com/watson/index.html) is a machine
learning platform that provides machine learning services to user in
the cloud. The IBM Watson library provides many machine learning
services from image processing to natural language processing. This
section will guide through the processes of creating an IBM Watson
account and explain the free tier details so that you can leverage the
tools and products available in AWS for your work and research.

## Creating an account

* A valid email address

First you need to visit the
[IBM Watson home page](https://www.ibm.com/watson/index.html) and
click in the "Get Started Free" link on the top right corner. You will
then be asked to provide some basic details including your email
address as shown in the image below

![](images/ibmwatson_signup.png)

Once you have submitted the signup form an confirmation email will be
sent to your email account, check your inbox and click on the confirm
account link in the email you receive. This will activate your IBM
Watson account. Once you have accepted the terms and conditions you
will be taken to the product and service catalog of IBM Watson as
shown in the image below.

![](images/catalog_ibm_watson.png)

## Understanding the free tier

IBM watson provides a set of services for free with their Lite
account. Since you did not provide any credit/debit card information
when creating the account, by default you will have a Lite account.
The lite plan does apply usage caps for services offered under the
plan. If you need to expand and remove such limits you would have to
upgrade to a payed account However the free quotas are typically more
than sufficient for testing and learning purposes. For example under
the Lite plan you can use the "Watson Assistant" service with caps
such as 10K API calls per month.
