# Communication

## Class Material

Most class material is distributed as ePubs or PDF. ePub renders on many
computers nicely, thus we recommend you use ePub instead of PDFs Please
Install an ePub Reader if your system does not have one.

  * macOS: Build in use Books
  * Windows 10: Build in use edge
  * others: [Calibre](https://forms.gle/w6ryzEm56rQmwWT38)

Naturally you can read the ePubs also on your tablet computers if you
have one with lots of memory. Please be aware that the documents will
be updated weekly and you need to download them accordingly. Make sure
you clear the cache if your browser prevents the download.

## Piazza

This class uses piazza for communication. It is your responsibility to
enroll in the Piazza for the class. A link to our Piazza is provided in
CANVAS. Piazza works just like a forum in which you can ask questions or
post notes. In case of a question students and teachers can formulate
answers. A thread system in the question can be used to gather the
answer.

* <https://piazza.com/iu/fall2019/e516fall19>

You will get a grade for participation in the class discussions on
Piazza. Please note that we do not recommend you go from CANVAS to
piazza as CANVAS has a bad layout and in fact does not allow you to see
the Piazza Hyperlinks. Instead go to Piazza directly.

## Class Resources

All class material will be posted at

* <https://piazza.com/iu/fall2019/e516fall19/resources>

## Online Meeting

If you are an online student:

A poll has been posted that you must fill out before Friday of the first
week of the semester for possible meeting times.

* <https://piazza.com/class/jzkfveoqwri3e4?cid=8>

The link to the meeting information is at 

* <https://piazza.com/class/jzkfveoqwri3e4?cid=7>

## Assignments

All Assignments are links in the piazza resource page as a simple link
to CANVAS in the resources page:

* <https://piazza.com/iu/fall2019/e516fall19/resources>


## Post Your Bio

To assure that you have access to Piazza and can post to it, please,
post a formal Bio.

## Evolving Document

This document is improved throughout the semester with weekly
activities. We recommend that you regularly download a new version. Be
aware that some browsers or ePub readers may cache the previous version.
Thus make sure to check out the newest version.


## Books

This class does not use books from publishers as cloud computing is
constantly changing and by the time you place the purchase order, the
book may already be outdated. Instead we have prepared online books that
are constantly evolving.

We like to illustrate on a simple example on what happened to us in the
past. We prepared with great detail information about Azure. However
throughout the semester the way on how to interact with it was changed
dramatically. Now if you would have had a book, the entire chapter about
Azure would have been outdated. However, within less than a week, we
were able to replace the content so everyone in class can benefit from
our updates very quickly. Not only that, because our material is online
you will likely find an updated version in future even after your class
is completed. No printed text book can provide this service.

We have the following books in ePub and PDF available. The ePub version
is our prefered version:

* [List of Books](https://laszewski.github.io/#books)

The weekly Lecture notes are contained at

* [e516: Cloud Computing Engineering](https://laszewski.github.io/book/e516/)


This page will bring you to the following books that we use as part of
e516. It will also clearly specify which assignments you need to do as
part of the weekly Lab activities.

* [Cloud Computing](https://laszewski.github.io/book/cloud/)
* [Linux](https://laszewski.github.io/book/linux/)
* [Python](https://laszewski.github.io/book/python/)
* [Markdown](https://laszewski.github.io/book/writing/)

## You Get Credit for Improving the Books

Please note that improving the document in GitHub via pull requests will
get you credits. This is an easy opportunity for you to get an excellent
grade.

## Ongoing Agenda

![Construction](images/warning.png)  We will add here on a weekly basis
the topics and Labs that we will cover in the coming week(s). Please be
aware that just as in regular lectures we add the agenda items and
follow the Syllabus. We may change the order of the topics covered in
the syllabus as appropriate.


