

## Mini Projects that could Substitute a Chapter

In some special cases it is possible to substitute the chapter and/or
section contributions with an additional mini project, that however
still has to be documented. An example of such a mini project is our
`cm-burn` command that creates Raspberry PI OS based on
manipulation of the file system

* <https://github.com/cloudmesh/cm-burn>

Please note that this is not less work than developing a chapter
and/or sections. You still will have to do a class project as the mini
project does not substitute the class project.

A mini project may be related to topics such as:

* Raspberry PI
* Sechi Disk Partial Image Analysis
* NIST OpenAPI definition and implementation

Mini projects must be suggested and approved by Dr. Gregor von Laszewski.

If you choose the *Cloudmesh Version 4* project, you are allowed to
substitute Sections and Mini Chapters with a single large project that
requires less documentation. However, you must contribute to this
project in a significant way. The project link is

* <https://github.com/cloudmesh-community/cm>

and contains an alpha version which is currently worked on. Please do
not expect that the documentation is up to date. Residential students
most frequently chose this as option. All programming in the project
is done in python and weekly updates are discussed in meetings or in
github.


## Project: Virtual Cluster

As previously stated, all students can contribute and participate on
the creation of the Cloud service mesh project called Cloudmesh
Version 4 that we will be using throughout the class to improve and
interface with cloud and container frameworks.  This project is
managed at:

* <https://github.com/cloudmesh-community/cm>

Residential students will work on this project and meet in a
discussion group to work on it while having weekly assigned tasks they
define with us. Online students are welcome to join this project and
their tasks will be discussed in online hours. You will also need
weekly time to work on it.  Online students that are in the
Bloomington area, are welcome to join our residential meetings (Please
contact Gregor via piazza).

Work on cloudmesh cm4, cm-burn or the NIST REST Specification document
can reduce the project report deliverable (in size) while substituting
it with a **significant** larger programming contribution.

* In case of cm4 we may write collaboratively a report but focus on
  the manual first
* In case of cm-burn we will work on a report that we publish in the
  Raspberry community
* In case of NIST you will be expected to contribute to the NIST
  Specification.

In addition to interfacing with clouds via an API, we are also
interested in displaying the interactions in Javascript. So if you have
Javascript skills this may be a good opportunity for you to contribute
to the project with your previous knowledge.
