# Cloud Foundry - Open Source PaaS

---

Keywords: Cloud Foundry, Open Source, PaaS

---

## Cloud Foundry Overview

Cloud Foundry (CF) is, an open source, Platform as a Service (PaaS)
available through a variety of private and public cloud distributions,
which is developed and operated by VMware and then transferred to
Pivotal Software, a joint venture by EMC, VMware and General
Electric. Pivotal Cloud Foundry is an alternative paid version with
additional commercial features, support and documentation.

As opposed to most of the PaaS offerings in the market, which are
*tied to proprietary implementations*, Cloud Foundry is an open source
software with flexibility to allow integrations with external
systems. Cloud Foundry provides all the PaaS capabilities like the
popular public and private PaaS Providers - built-in scalable
infrastructure, middleware, and various tools for development,
deployment and support. Cloud Foundry promotes the 12-factor
application methodology to write clean applications with clear
separation of front-end and back-end concerns. 12-factor framework
provide software development guidelines such as tracking the code
changes through source control system, calling out the software
dependencies, configuration management, loosely coupled services,
build and deployment management [@twelve-factor-app]. To enable
infrastructure-agnostic architecture, Cloud Foundry, as shown in
@fig:OpenPaaS focused on three main categories: *Clouds,Frameworks and
Services* [@Badola2015].

:o2: Image needs to be replaced as no longer available

![Cloud Foundry - Open PaaS [@harris_2011]](images/Cloud-Foundry-as-Open-PaaS.jpg){#fig:OpenPaaS}

### Category: Clouds

Public and private clouds have their advantages and disadvantages.
While public clouds provide flexibility and faster deployments,
private clouds offer operational efficiency and total control. *Hybrid
cloud approach* gives best of both public and private cloud offerings:
infrastructure scalability, deployment and monitoring tools, data
locality, industry regulations, zero-changes to the existing
applications or develop with cloud-native mindset - API Gateways in
combination of Micro-Services. Cloud Foundry is an open PaaS with
ability to extend and collaborate with other private and public cloud
systems. It can co-exist with other PaaS and IaaS platforms, in a way,
it can be hosted on top of popular cloud environments like AWS, Azure,
Google Cloud and OpenStack.

### Category: Frameworks

Most of the cloud environments are *restricted to fewer frameworks*
and programming languages. Tough there is a good coverage of runtime
environments and programming languages offered by most of the public
clouds including AWS and Azure, there are still some restrictions
either in the way we will need to use them or in the pricing and
licensing models. Cloud Foundry, at architecture level, is generic and
intended to host any programming language.  It is written in Ruby and
currently supports popular programming languages like Spring, Java,
Ruby and NodeJS.

### Category: Services

Similarly most of the clouds have limited set of support for various
types of data, messaging and other services, restricting companies and
development teams by forcing them to use specific technologies.  Cloud
Foundry, out of the box, shipped with support to various services like
relational (MySQL, PostgreSQL), NoSQL (MongoDB), Key-Value pair
(Redis) databases and RabbitMQ message queuing system along with
extensibility to allow third-party systems to be added later.

## Key Components

Cloud Foundry comes with lots of ready-made components to support all
the key aspects of PaaS cloud computing in a scalable fashion
[@Nimalsiri2016]. @fig:CFArchitecture is a good representation of the
major components of Cloud Foundry:

![Cloud Foundry Architecture [@cialisalto]](images/Cloud-Foundry-arch.png){#fig:CFArchitecture}

### Router

Router is responsible for controlling all the external and application
level traffic, and also directing the incoming traffic to appropriate
components. Router confguration allows to have number of routers to
enable proper load balancing and high availability of the cloud
foundry environment. Each router maintains a dynamic route table with
all details of the deployed applications. Gorouter interacts with
Cloud Controller and Droplet Execution Agent (*DEA*) to facilitate the
updated routing information across the Cloud Foundry
Environment. Router is implemented in Go programming language that can
offer optimal performance.

### UAA and Login Server

User Account and Authentication (*UAA*) and Login Server components
are the identity management system in CloudFoundry. Cloud Foundry uses
OAuth2 (Open Authorization) standards driven token- based
authentication and authorization to manage user security tokens.

### Cloud Controller

We can think of Cloud Controller (*CC*) as the brain of Cloud Foundry
Environment and the main responsibility of Cloud Controller is to
manage the applications life cycle - deployment, application
meta-data, staging and running the applications. CC uses *Diego
Brain*, CC-Bridge and Diego Cells to stage and run the
applications. CC redirects the first requests to the appropriate
Droplet Execution Engine (DEA) available in the load balancing
pool. CC user permissions are maintained at various levels - Orgs,
Spaces and Roles for greater scalability to the role-based access
control. Application deployment artifacts - code packages, build-packs
and droplets are maintained in Blob Store.

### Execution and Storage

Droplet Execution Engine (*DEA*) is responsible for application
deployment and runtime management - selecting appropriate build- pack,
stage the application and ensuring end-to-end life cycle management of
the application instance. Build packs are the scripts to identify the
required framework for applications to run properly. Droplet is the
unit of execution - deployed build pack of the application along with
the application metadata. Wardens are containers to host the droplets
and isolate them in resource-controlled environments. *BOSH* is used
as tool for release management of complex distributed systems.

### Service Brokers

Most of the applications have aspects like interacting with database,
sending messages using Service-Oriented Architecture (*SOA*) and
interfacing third-party components. Services cannot directly interact
with the applications given they run in the containers which are not
persistent. Cloud Foundry uses service brokers in a decoupled fashion
through which application developers can facilitate and use the
services in applications. Cloud Controller uses *NATS* based messaging
system.  It uses a light-weight publish-subscribe mechanism to
distribute the queued messages among applications.

### Monitoring and Logging

CC provides various tools for continuous monitoring - *(a)* Health
Manager: Responsible for monitoring health of the application
instances by interacting with DEA and CC, *(b)* Metric Collector:
Gathers various application metrics from the running instances, and
*(c)* Log Aggregator: Streams application logs. Developers and support
teams can access these logs and metrics to monitor, support and take
necessary actions to keep systems up and running.

## Conclusion :o2:

![No](images/no.png)

Cloud Foundry is gaining traction, in the public and private
organizations, as an open source alternative to PaaS Offerings
[@fortune-500].  Cloud Foundry is worth considering in the cloud
computing space as it enables scalability and best practices by
promoting 12-factor application development.

![No](images/no.png) This conclusion is a bit fluffy and not backed up by refernces.
Instead of a conclusion it would be better to showcase a real example.
