# FAQ: 423/523 and others colocated with them

This section contains FAQs relevant for 523.

## Bibtex tips for consitency across contributors
Congratulations, the majority of the bitex entries were done correctly. However, there are some few and small issues you could improve. This helps consistency across all contributors



a) use camel case in all titles consistently

b) see the FAQ on authors and keys

c) allowed are

howpublished={Web page},

howpublished={Blog},

howpublished={Presentation},

howpublished={Github},

howpublished={Bitbucket},

in miscs are allowed



not allowed are: webpage Webpage website Website,

any author or organization name



in case of wikipedia, the author ie author = {{Wikipedia}},



all misc labels ought to have a www- in it if they are online resources



c) we do not use @Online which is specific to some publishers and not universal

d) if a online citation has a publishing date we use month and year not date, you can not mix date with month and year, use month and year instead, If the publication date is not known use month and date for access and put note={Accessed}, in the entry



e) Use camel case for authors. Note that some authors have strange last name such as mine, so my author name is von Laszewski, Gregor



f) do not uses utf-8 chars such as "u "a and so on use instead {\"u} {\"a} and so on, see LaTeX bibtex manuals for details



Please remember this is not a lot to change for you.



A TA is assigned to help on this.


## Misc entries require an author or key
Misc entries do require either an author or a key. The author lastname or the key is used for sorting. An entry without either is invalid.



You have time to fix this for a month. Most of you added an author.



In case the author is a company it must be in double brackets, example: author={{My Company}}, keys do naturally do not need double brackets.


## TODO list location
I still haven’t received any feedback from my earlier question this morning about locating the todo list in the epub so that I may see what is wrong with my technology summaries. I’ve also checked that I do not have any outstanding pull requests. Could someone please help me find this so I may fix my summaries by tonight?

The Todo is in the epub of the technologies its a section header

## Video on how to find the error reports for Technology Summaries
Those with pull request errors may want to look at



https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FDqlKtQcy1U

## only one url in url={}
There can only be one url in the bibtex url filed, IF you need multiple, each one must have its own citation entry.


## Incomplete analysis of your technologies
While reviewing some of your technologies we found that some students checked on their technologies with a smiley so we started looking at them. The good news is that many are good improvements.



However, we have a couple of suggestions so you can achieve your best.



a) we see that some students have missing bibtex entries or use labels wrong

b) it is in the student's responsibility to fix all duplicated bibtex entries in all technologies. For example we only need one www-google bibtex and not Google-web page Google, and other labels, all labels in all technologies should be changed to a single entry

c) We see that when we assigned you a technology you do not cross check if other entries use your technology. Naturally, if we assign you a technology and the entry is duplicated you nee dto discuss with us what to do. In most cases you also have to fix the other entry for which you get also credit for.  

d) students do not use linux tools such as grep because they have not yet switched to using command line tools for git.



As an example I like to provide what you what I would do if i were to improve the entry "Flume"



1. I would grep for it:


```
grep -n -R -i flume chapters bib
```

As a result I get


```
chapters/tech/flume.md:## Flume

chapters/tech/flume.md:| title    | Flume          |

chapters/tech/flume.md:Flume is distributed, reliable and available service for efficiently

chapters/tech/flume.md:data [@apache-flume]. Flume was created to allow you to flow data

chapters/tech/flume.md:from a source into your Hadoop environment.  In Flume, the entities

chapters/tech/flume.md:be any data source, and Flume has many predefined source adapters. A

chapters/tech/flume.md:or removing pieces of information, and more [@ibm-flume].

chapters/tech/google-flumejava.md:## Google FlumeJava :hand: fa18-523-83

chapters/tech/google-flumejava.md:| title    | Google FlumeJava       |

chapters/tech/google-flumejava.md:FlumeJava is a Java library that is built based on the concepts of MapReduce to simplify the development, testing, and execution of dataparallel pipelines [fa18-523-83-@flumeJava-parallel-pipelines].

chapters/tech/google-flumejava.md:FlumeJava is an easier-to-use version of MapReduce, make it simplier to build operation that process data. FlumeJava can also be integrated with other applications to allow stream processing instead of batch processing [fa18-523-83-@flumejava-wired].

chapters/tech/google-flumejava.md:FlumeJava was able to optimize MapReduce tasks and decrease execution time of MapReduce by allowing roll-back failed job instead of restarting [fa18-523-83-@flumejava-bp3].

bib/references.bib:@Misc{apache-flume,

bib/references.bib:  Title =        {Apache Flume},

bib/references.bib:  Url =          {https://flume.apache.org/index.html}

bib/references.bib:@Misc{ibm-flume,

bib/references.bib:  Title =        {What is Flume?},

bib/references.bib:                  {https://www-01.ibm.com/software/data/infosphere/hadoop/flume/}

bib/references.bib:@Inproceedings{flumejava-paper,

bib/references.bib:  Title =        {FlumeJava: Easy, Efficient Data-Parallel Pipelines},

bib/references.bib:@Misc{www-flumejava-google,

bib/references.bib:  Key =          {FlumeJava Google research},

bib/references.bib:@Misc{apache-flume,

bib/references.bib:  Title =        {Apache Flume},

bib/references.bib:  Url =          {https://flume.apache.org/index.html}

bib/references.bib:@Misc{ibm-flume,

bib/references.bib:  Title =        {What is Flume?},

bib/references.bib:                  {https://www-01.ibm.com/software/data/infosphere/hadoop/flume/}

bib/references.bib:@Inproceedings{flumejava-paper,

bib/references.bib:  Title =        {FlumeJava: Easy, Efficient Data-Parallel Pipelines},

bib/references.bib:@Misc{www-flumejava-google,

bib/references.bib:  Key =          {FlumeJava Google research},
```


Now I see the following



a. I get two entries that relate to fume. So I need to look at both of them and potentially fix both of them or if it makes sense merging them



b. I see a howl bunch of bib tex entries. In fact it looks like that many are duplicated. Thus I need to make sure that I reduce the number of bibtex entries, but I must be careful, as the once that I would be deleting could be used elsewhere and if I delete them or change the label I need to change them elsewhere also. This includes files that may use the bibtex that have nothing to do with my technology. It is easy, I just check with grep for all entries label that I remove or rename and change the corresponding time.



This all takes a minute in the command line. I am unaware that this task even can be done in the GUI and if it would take hours.



So if you spend hours on doing things in the GUI you do something wrong and must attend the online hour so TAs can teach you how to do it right. Naturally, we have all that information in the handbook also and many students do it right.



c) due to the nature of students may needing to change labels staying in sync with upstream is much easier on the commandline. as documented in the handbook.



So what would I do for Flume in summary



1. merge the entries while flume java becomes a subsection on the 3rd level (assuming the flume we talk about are the same)

2. remove all duplicated entries and use new labels I define

3. for an old entry i just leave the bibtex label and use that

4. in case I need to use new citations I prepend my hid

5. all www resources have www- in it. if not I rename the label



Based on this analysis the Flume entry does not pass our review

I have made significant changes that require a new fork or an update to the fork. Please do so. This could even be done from the GUI, however, the commandline is easier, so we do not teach you how to do it in the GUI.


## The pull requests of technology summaries
Hi professor,



I have updated four summaries in the github and got the reply that "use in addition to " also >", I have no idea about the meaning of that, could you please clarify it? My hid is fa18-523-85, the four technologies are "blaze", "daal (intel)", "lxc", "OSGi".



Looking forward to hearing from you.

look at markdown documentation for >

look at epub and find a technology report from a student with a gray bar

## REMINDER: quotes for technologies
In the technologies, we like you to make the quoting style consistent among all entries that are assigned to you. Please fix them in your entries. please see the following example:



> "This is a quote over multiple lines
>
> for the technologies" [@label].


Please be reminded to use straight quotes not left and right quotes and use the greater sign at the beginning. Please remember that you are only allowed to use 30% of quotes and that the technologies typically have a 300 word minimum.

## Headings
a) please do not use all caps for heading



wrong:


```
## HEADING
```


correct


```
## Heading
```


The title is the only heading that has only one #

## Quote characters in markdown
Some editors such as word try to be extra smart and do replace the quotes with a left and a right quote. However, markdown is designed to just use straight quotes.

use proper quotes which are " not left and right quote. Markdown however as we use it uses only one quote and that is "quote" if your editor puts left and right quotes in automatically, find a different editor such as emacs or pycharm

## Tech Summaries. Puntuation, citations. Please read.
We see several check-ins that have good content but do not follow the rules for citations.



a) a technology section does not have a *References* section at the end. All technologies just use bibtex. The bibtex is automatically inserted where the label is, so you do not have to worry about managing a references section



b)  a citation must be in the same sentence before the sentence ends.


```
This is wrong. [@label]

"This is also wrong." [@label]



This is the right way to cite [@label].
```


As citations are an important placement please check all your entries that you are responsible for as you only have 4 that should be an issue of minutes not hours.

IF we find such punctuation errors, your entry will be downgraded to a B if nothing else is wrong. We will also keep it marked with a red circle. The same rules apply to your 2 page paper and the project report.



Why so strict? Citation rules are strict and must be done correctly I had professional editors that would reject a submission with citation errors such as this.


## use of underscore for em and bf
As we do some translations of the markdown, we noticed that whan you use _ instead of * in your markdown this may lead to issues. please use


```
*italic*

and

**bold**
```
