# FAQ: 516

This section contains FAQs relevant for 516. faq

## Why have the individual lectures been removed from the resources section?

We identified that someone after almost three weeks has not looked at
the ePub and missed valuable information. To force students to look at
the epub we have removed the direct links to the md files in piazza
`Resources` section. Instead we still leave the links to the md file
sin the syllabus so that you can still get to them from the syllabus.
This way also room for error is minimized as we only have to update
one file wit the location and not two.

The little clouds in the ePub are automatically created and provide
a direct link to the md file for which the content follows.

Essentially instead of making it real convenient not to read the ePub,
we make it now real convenient that you read it while *hiding* the
inks a bit in the syllabus md file.


## Opening ePub properly in Linux

We recently noticed that not all the symbols, which are pretty important, are
visible when we open the ePub in Linux using Calibre.

Before trying to putting time on fixing the Calibre, I tried couple of other
software and seems like  Bookworm can open the ePub correctly. I tried this in
Ubuntu 18.04 (unity). You can follow the instructions here for installing
Bookworm.

## Microsoft Edge for ePub
On Windows 10 you need to have version 42.17134 for edge to properly display an ePub.

## Project format: Markdown allowed

I have been working with some students on using Markdown for the
format of the project report and it turns out to be possible to write
your project report in markdown.

Hence, you have the option to use Markdown or LaTeX. We still use
bibtex for management of the references in markdown.



tips for use of markdown for project report writing:


```
labels for citation in markdown are [@label]
```

use of commands

````md
```bash
$ ls
```
````

use of python

````md
```python
print("hello")
```
````

do not use quotes when you ought to use italics: This technology is
called "docker" is wrong, but this technology is called *docker* is
right.  Use # to manage your sections not underscores or = this way
you can easier count if indentation level is right There must only be
the title with one # images are included as documented in our
notation.md file of the lecture notes Do not use the words below and
above, as the images can float and below and above makes ABSOLUTELY NO
SENSE when referring to images if you do not know the final format
where the images will be placed which is the case for us. Figures must
be mentioned in the text explicitly. e.g. as shown in `@fig:figlabel`
you can use pandoc locally to make sure bibs and figures show up
corretcly.

## pull request in documents from commandline
I updated a section in the github section called

“25.5.17 Contributing to the Document”

The problem is neither the TAs or I can test it as our permissions are
different. Would someone with github knowledge be so kind to test that
section and improve so others can replicate this?

It may actually work, but I have not tested it. Improvement suggestions are
welcome.

There is lots of documentation about this on the github.com web page also,


If you are forking a repo, it's better to keep your master branch
clean. Meaning that there won't be any changes done on your master
branch itself. It will be the branch that you sync with the upstream
repo (the cloudmesh repo).



Hence, if you are doing any changes, it's better to do it in a branch
in your own repo. Then if there are conflicts, you can resolve them on
your own repo first when rebasing (syncing your dev branch with the
upstream master).

Ex:

Let's say you are working on the file ref.bib.

You are keeping the master of your repo in sync and working on a branch called
dev-ref. But when you try to push, you finds out that there's already a new
change in the upstream master for the same file.



Then what you do is, first sync your master. Then you do a rebase for your
branch to get the branch up to date with the latest changes (your synced
master). Once rebased (fixing the conflicts), then you can send the pull request
from your branch to the upstream repo.


It's always better to keep your master clean for the rebase to be easier on your
fork.

## pyenv installed but can not find python

We recommend that you read the section that comes immediately after the pyenv
install section. It comments on how to install python with pyenv. pyenv by
itself does not come with python, it is a tool to install python. Yo naturally
have to install the version you want to use.

## ssh add/keychoain on OSX

There is lots of information in the lecture notes on SSH I strongly recommend
you read it. However, I saw some people struggle with SSH keychain on OSX. Here
some tips on how to make it work on OSX which I found on the Web.



1. Start the ssh-agent in the background.
```
eval "$(ssh-agent -s)"
Agent pid 59566
```

2. Use `~/.ssh/config` file to automatically load keys into the ssh-agent and
   store passphrases in your keychain. Add the following to the file:

```
Host *
 AddKeysToAgent yes
 UseKeychain yes
 IdentityFile ~/.ssh/id_rsa
```

3. Add your SSH private key to the ssh-agent and store your passphrase in the
   keychain. If you created your key with a different name, or if you are 
   adding an existing key that has a different name, replace id_rsa in the 
   command with the name of your private key file. Note the -K is OSX 
   specific and means you will use keychain to manage your key

```
ssh-add -K ~/.ssh/id_rsa
```

## check into github early!


There is no such thing as to check your things in github early. In
fact that is good as than others can contribute early including me if
I have time. A good example is the vagrant code where a student made
the wise decision to check it in and someone (in this case me)
contributed. As you can see through teamwork we can achieve a lot.

So do not be embarrassed if your code needs to have improvements



In the cm folder when you work on things just create an incoming
directory and put your code in a subfolder if it is not yet
integrated. We will set up a library structure soon.



I just spoke to a student who thought his code was not yet good
enough. But my oppinion is any code is good enough. as it allows
others to contribute early


## I want to start my project now.

We have provided you with a concrete assignment of developing a python program.
This program, can be used as part of you project. I advise you that if you like
to start on your project now. TO start with the development of this program. We
will enhance this program so that the project can benefit from it.

We have provided you with a concrete assignment of developing a python program.
This program, can be used as part of you project. I advise you that if you like
to start on your project now. TO start with the development of this program. We
will enhance this program so that the project can benefit from it.

You should spend your time learning about python and setting up your
environment. Using VirtualBox will come in handy when we start managing virtual
machines from the command line.


## Mac with external hard drive

Apologies if this is explained in the book but I'm not very familiar with this,
would using a macbook Air with an external 1TB hard drive been sufficient
computing power/memory for this course or do I need to look into memory chips?

Yes. typically you do not need an external HD if you have space left. Naturally
if your Mac book is 10 years old there are limitations. Certainly you can login
into the cloud and use cloud resources from your mac. We even had student s that
successfully conducted the class with a $35 Raspberry pi.We know that
chroembook, cell phone and tablet is not good enough.

## Submitting a section

Do you want us to email or post here to let you know when we've created a
section and a pull request for it? And do we need to check with you that no one
else is doing that section before we write and submit it?

we wtch the pull requests actively in github, when you have a section taht is
not yet in git hub add them and put in the comment you work on it,


## Where to post comprehensions?

Where would you like us to post comprehensions? Will there be a thread for each
comprehension or should we be making our own posts for each?

a) When students have questions and others answer that counts as comprehension.

b) Once we have set up the github repos you can post comprehension code you like
   to share with others there

c) Residential students will have opportunity to also participate actively in
   the class.

d) There will be a notebook.md in which you can document your activities. 
   That however willl not be set up till Friday when the deadline for the 
   survey is passed.

## Communication of sections into the README.yml

see: <https://github.com/cloudmesh-community/sp19-516-122> as example

MAKE SURE YOU USE EXACTLY THE SAME SPACING AND DASHES AND ATTRIBUTES

Look at it in raw, only copy from the raw file, never from the rendered version

## Question on adding new sections to the book and github protocol

I was interested in adding the following item below to the book in the data
center section "6.4 Data Center Characteristics" as another bullet example of
AWS failures that have occurred:
<https://www.datacenterknowledge.com/archives/2017/03/02/aws-outage-that-broke-the-internet-caused-by-mistyped-command> 

I am new to github, what is the protocol to obtain a local copy of the book,
update, then submit my change?

The easiest iv the markdown file eixsts is to locate it in github via the Web
browser and edit it in the browser.

Make the modification and create a pull request. We talked about this in the
online and residential hours this week.

You can setup an online help with a TA to have them show you.

## Where to post references

Is there a particular bib file we should be adding to for our references or
should we be creating a new one for the sections/chapters we do?

first identify if the bib not already exists.

if not simplui add a new bibfile with the topic and add it there.

## where are the lectures?

We got the first question that a student could not find the lectures, but had
already access to piazza. In a previous post we send out a ling to the ePub.
This ePub is also linked in the Resources panel in piazza. You need to download
and open this ePub.

As explained in that post on piazza you will need to install an ePub reader. On
OSX this is installed by default and called iBooks or Books. On Windows you need
to install a new version of Microsoft Edge and open the ePub for it or
alternatively use caliber. On linux you need to install calibre.

Every reasonable OS has working ePub readers ... if its not installed, please
install one. We can discuss issues also live on Thursday if needed. Residential
students can discuss issues on Friday morning in our first meeting.

The ePub contains a detailed set of information on how to take the class You
need to read it., It also contains a section Proposed Lecture Timeline. I
suggest you look at the first two entries in that table.

## Swagger UI

For connexion based swagger projects, you can automatically enable the UI by
requiring

```
connexion[swagger-ui]
```

instead of just

```
connextion
```

The UI will be available at {apiurl}/ui

## Image file names (IMPORTANT)

as we simply copy all images from all papers into a single image directory,
please make sure your filename is unique. Please add your hid as a prefix to
your filename. Check the ePubs. If you see an issue simply rename the file and
update the md file


## Report template

A gentle reminder. I Need that most reread this as they are not following the
instructions on how to integrate images



<https://github.com/cloudmesh-community/proceedings-fa18/blob/master/project-report/report.md>



There are some students that do it correctly thogh, so we know it works.

Be reminded that we use a more powerful markdown with figure labeling that
github does not support.

We use pandoc with pandoc-fignos, and pandoc-citeproc. If you want to install it
locally follow the instruction provided in the handbook. THis way you can always
check it locally before committing.

## improved ePub vieweing of ePub documents

* a) I installed a mor eup to date version of calibre
* b) I embedded the emoji fonts
* c) I updated the ePubs that show now emojies
* d) ePub has also a TOC on the side.

As we had some users with outdated versions of MS Edge or a forwards button
issue, we recommend that you give calibre a try, its relatively fast, however
due to the size of the document you still ave to wait tilll the pa

## empty lines in markdown


markdown is a simple format. One of the things it, however, does allow is that
there are a variety of errors occurring if you use different markdown editors as
they do not check for everything.



We HIGHLY RECOMMEND that you use ample empty lines.



* a) there is an empty line before and after a heading
* b) there is an empty line before and after a code block
* c) there is an empty line before and after a quotation
* d) there is an empty line before and after a figure
* b) there is an empty line before and after a itemize list
* b) there is an empty line before and after a paragraph (paragraphs are not indented)

...

so the rule is simple:

there is an empty line before and after each format change in markdown

So if your text does not display in the proceedings, correctly, I do recommend
to follow this markdown recommendation.

## Linux ePub Reader (followup)

Linux:

<https://itsfoss.com/best-ebook-readers-linux> 

Windows:

<https://blog.kowalczyk.info/articles/epub-ebook-reader-viewer-for-windows.html>

<https://beebom.com/best-epub-reader-windows> 


## auto 80 char

Those that use emcas could experiment with the following. I do not know if this works well yet.

The following will autoformat an entire file to 80 chars. The reason i put it in
test.md is that I do not know if it reliably works on all md files, just inspect
the output and decide for yourself. some md files you may not want to manipulate
with this though

```
cp file.md test.md
emacs -batch test.md --eval '(fill-region (point-min) (point-max))' -f save-buffer
```

## what if i committed a wrong file to github, a.g. a private key?
AVOID IT:

a) first do github adds file by fill with git add. Avoid using adds on AND DO
NOT USE


```
 git add .                  # <<<<<<< DO NOT USE
```

b) only use ssh keys in ~/.ssh NEVER place keys in directories that are managed
by git



YOU CAN NOT EASILY DELETE FILES FROM GIT:


c) as you may already know despite you deleting a file from git it is still in
the git history. Also there are bad characters out there so if you checked in
you ssh private key just for a second

you must assume your private key is now compromised and all machines that use it
are compromised.

d) although GIt allows you to delete the file, it is still in the githistory,
which can be mined so despite you pressing delete its still there and can be
found. This is not a bug in git but this is you having git not used right.

e) There are ways to purge such files, but it would imply that everyone that did
a fork needs to do a new fork which is naturally a big issue, so we do not do
this during the semester.

NOW WHAT?

f) every machine on which you used the public key of this private key is to be
   considered now compromised.

g) put them off from the network while plugging out the network plug

g) if the machines are not owned by you but for example, IU, notify the people
   that own the machine to ask for help with mitigation.

f) if you are lucky, replace the key, this is the case for example for services
   such as github. Make sure to inspect the configurations and see if your 
   account has not been hijacked.

h) We will immediately remove you from services such as future systems and
   chameleon cloud

as a precaution or deactivate your membership in our cloud accounts.


i) if you used the keys on other services, including IU, it is up to you to
   identify how to deal with this,

j) definitely create a new key and use that from now on.

k) you can call my office number or use piazza to set up a call to identify what
   the impact is

as this is typically an emergency use 812 856 1311. Do not leave a msg, but
instead send e-mail.with your phone number so we can call you back to assess
the situation.

l) if you use them on public clouds that cost money, shut down all machines that
use them. I would not start them again but instead use new once. It may be time
to drop everything and do this first. Sorry for making you now panic.


## markdown and bibtex


As you know we do not use LaTeX for this class but simply markdown. you can use
pandoc to create your ePubs locally if you wish while following the paradox
manual.

However, it's much simpler than that, as we create the proceedings with all your
markdown papers for you once a week, so you can check it. OFten we create it
multiple times a day.

So you do not have to do much than once in a while looking at the ePubs.

As part of this we like to remind you that we did distribute on day one of the
class a document located in



<https://github.com/cloudmesh-community/book/blob/master/README.md>



That is called Scientific Writing II. This includes a section about LaTeX which
you can ignore, but it also includes a section about bibtex and how to do bibtex
entries that you may be benefitting from. So take a quick look at the Section 3.
It also explains how to improve bibtex entries which is important for your
projects.



<http://cyberaide.org/papers/vonLaszewski-latex.pdf>



Also, we noticed that some do not follow our tips posed as part of the FAQ's we
send out here.

So we do recommend that you inspect them. TAs are assigned to also move the FAQs
into the handbook. So you can also find them there (after a week).



Please also be reminded that there is an empty line before and after a heading
or a quote or

a list or any paragraph. paragraphs are not indented with tabs or spaces
