# Frequently Asked Questions

## General

### What is Chameleon?

Chameleon is an experimental testbed for Computer Science funded by the
NSF FutureCloud program. Chameleon is built over two sites, University
of Chicago and TACC, offering a total of over 550 nodes and 5 PB of
space in twelve [Standard Cloud Unit (SCU)
racks](https://www.chameleoncloud.org/about/hardware-description/). To
effectively support Computer Science experiments Chameleon offers bare
metal reconfigurability on most of the hardware. To provide easy access
to educational users, three SCUs at TACC (a quarter of the testbed) are
configured with OpenStack KVM. You can read more about
Chameleon [here](https://www.chameleoncloud.org/about/chameleon/).

### What does CHI mean?

CHI stands for Chameleon Infrastructure, and refers to the technology
powering our bare-metal clouds: a combination of software components
from OpenStack, Grid'5000, and our own developments.

### Who can use Chameleon?

Chameleon is broadly available to members of the US Computer Science
research community and its international collaborators working in the
open community on cloud research.  By emphasizing "open" we mean that
the expectation is that any research performed on Chameleon will result
in publication in a broadly available journal or conference. 

### What are the best practices for Chameleon usage?

In order to promote fairness to all users, we have the following set of
Best Practices for using Chameleon bare metal partitions:

-    Think Small for Development: If you are just developing or
    prototyping a system, and not yet running experiments at scale, use
    only as many nodes as you actually need (e.g., many projects can be
    developed and tested on 3-4 nodes), and try to take short
    reservations (e.g., for a work day or two when you actually
    develop). Always release the reservation if you will not use the
    testbed for an extended period of time (e.g., when you leave for the
    weekend or holidays). 

-   Automation is your Friend: You can always snapshot your work/images
    between sessions using the [snapshotting
    instructions](https://www.chameleoncloud.org/docs/user-guides/ironic/#snapshotting_an_instance) to
    simplify the redeployment of your environment during the next work
    session. You can also use scripting and environment customization to
    make it easier to redeploy images. An additional benefit of
    automation is that it makes it easier for you to reproduce your work
    and eventually share it with colleagues within your lab and other
    collaborators.

-   Think Big for Experimentation: Once you are ready to experiment you
    will want to test your experimental setup on increasingly larger
    scales. This is possible by taking an advance reservation for many
    resources for a relatively short time. The more resources you need,
    the more likely it is that you will need to run experiments at a
    less attractive time (e.g., during the weekend) --- here's where
    automation will also help. In justified cases, we will support
    reserving even the whole bare metal testbed.

### Are there any limitations on Chameleon usage?

We have two types of limitations, introduced to promote fair resource
usage to all: 

-   Allocation: Chameleon projects are limited to a per-project
    allocation currently set to 20,000 service units for 6 months.
    Allocations can be renewed or extended---see the [Project and
    Allocation
    Management](index.html#toc-project-and-allocation-management)
    section for more details on Chameleon allocations.

-   Lease: To ensure fairness to all users, resource reservations
    (leases) are limited to a duration of 7 days. However, an active
    lease within 48 hours of its end time can be prolonged by up to 7
    days from the moment of request if resources are available. To
    prolong a lease, click on the "Update Lease" button in the
    Reservations panel of the CHI OpenStack dashboard, and enter the
    additional duration requested in the "Prolong for" box including the
    unit suffix, e.g. "5d" for 5 days or "30m" for 30 minutes. If there
    is an advance reservation blocking your lease prolongation that
    could potentially be moved, you can interact through the users
    mailing list to coordinate with others users. Additionally, if you
    know from the start that your lease will require longer than a week
    and can justify it, you can [contact Chameleon staff via the
    ticketing
    system](https://www.chameleoncloud.org/user/help/ticket/new/) to
    request a one-time exception to create a longer lease.

### How should I acknowledge Chameleon in my publications?

An acknowledgement of support from the Chameleon project and the
National Science Foundation should appear in any publication of
material, whether copyrighted or not, that describes work which
benefited from access to Chameleon cyberinfrastructure resources. The
suggested acknowledgement is as follows: "Results presented in this
paper were obtained using the Chameleon testbed supported by the
National Science Foundation".

### What infrastructures is Chameleon federated with?

Chameleon supports identity federation with GENI designed to give GENI
users immediate access to Chameleon without having to create a Chameleon
account or project. GENI users can log in with their GENI credentials
and charge their usage the GENI Federation Project created to provide
startup cycles to researchers evaluating Chameleon. To obtain a larger
allocation focused on their research needs, GENI users can then go on to
create individual Chameleon projects. Chameleon users can also log in to
the GENI Experimenter Portal using their Chameleon credentials. When
selecting the organization with whom to log in to GENI, search for
"Chameleon Cloud" in the list of Identity Providers. You will be
redirected to the Chameleon Auth Service to log in and then back to the
GENI Experimenter Portal upon successful login.

## Project and Allocation Management

### How do I apply for a Chameleon project?

Project applications may be filled out
[here](https://www.chameleoncloud.org/user/projects/new/). If you want
to apply for a project you have to be [PI
eligible](https://www.chameleoncloud.org/docs/getting-started/pi-eligibility/);
if you fulfill the PI eligibility criteria but did not request PI
eligibility when you applied for a Chameleon account you can request it
by modifying options in your profile. An application for a project has
to include a description of the research or education project to be
performed using the testbed and the type of resources needed (see
below). Each Chameleon project is awarded an allocation of service units
for a specific amount of time. Users can expect a project decision
within one business day.

### Who is eligible to be Chameleon PI and how do I make sure that my PI status is reflected in my profile?

Chameleon PIs carry significant responsibility for the users on their
projects; we therefore limit PI eligibility to individual from the
following groups:

-   Academic institutions: This eligibility criterion coves research
    scientists or faculty members in those institutions

-   Federal agencies such as national labs, R&D centers, and institutes:
    Research staff employed by federal agencies or non-NSF Federally
    Funded R&D Centers (FFRDCs) are eligible to apply for an allocation.

-   Independent museums, observatories, libraries, research
    laboratories, professional societies and similar organizations in
    the United States that are directly associated with educational or
    research activities are eligible.

-   International research institutions: to promote intellectual
    exchange and federation with institutions abroad we support a
    limited number of international PIs with ongoing, active
    collaborations with scientists in the US. 

-   NSF Graduate Student Fellows: While in most cases, a graduate
    student is ineligible to be PI of an allocation request, an
    exception is made for NSF Graduate Student Fellows. Recipients of
    these NSF awards can submit requests for Startup allocations as long
    as they include supporting documentation (grant number or an award
    letter) as part of the request submission.

-   State educational offices or organizations and local school
    districts may submit allocation requests intended to broaden the
    impact, accelerate the pace, and increase the effectiveness of
    improvements in science, mathematics, and engineering education in
    both K-12 and post-secondary levels. A teacher or educator at an
    accredited public or private K-12 school is eligible to apply for an
    allocation as PI.

We do occasionally provide case-by-case exceptions to this guideline in
well-justified cases. 

If are eligible to be PI, in order to apply for a project  you need to
make sure that your Chameleon profile reflects your status. You can do
so on the [Edit Account Profile
page](https://www.chameleoncloud.org/user/profile/edit). Simply check
the "Request PI Eligibility" checkbox and save you Account Profile.

### My PI/Professor/Colleague already has a Chameleon Project. How do I get added as a user on the project?

You will need to contact the project PI and request that they add you as
a user. Provide the PI with your Chameleon username. The project PI
should visit the [Chameleon Project Management
page](https://www.chameleoncloud.org/user/projects). From the list of
projects, locate the project to which the user is to be added and click

View Project

. Near the bottom of the page, under the heading *Project Users*, is a
form where the PI can enter the Chameleon username of the user to add.
Clicking

Add user

 will add the user to the project.

### What are the units of an allocation, and how am I charged?

Chameleon allocations can consist of several components of the system.
Users can request allocation of individual compute nodes, storage
servers, or complete Scalable Compute Units (SCUs) which contain compute
servers, storage nodes, and an open flow switch.

Compute servers are allocated in Service Units (SUs), which equates to
one hour of wall clock time on a single server (for virtual machines, an
SU is 24 cores with up to 128GB of RAM). Note this unit differs from
traditional HPC or cloud service units that are charged in core-hours; a
Chameleon SU is a full server, as the type of experiments and
performance measurements users may wish to do may be contaminated by
sharing nodes.

Storage servers are also charged in SUs, at 2x the rate of compute
servers (i.e., 1 hour allocation of 1 storage server == 2 SUs). SCUs are
charged at the rate of 50 SUs per wall clock hour (42 compute servers, 4
storage nodes, plus one OpenFlow switch).

An allocation may make use of multiple SCUs, up to the size of the full
testbed.

For example, a user wishing to provision a 10 node cluster +1 storage
server for a 1 week experiment should budget
`[(10 + 2) SUs per hour]  [7 days  24 hours/day] = 2,016 SUs` for that
experiment.

SUs are charged the same regardless of use case. Hence, whether asking
for bare metal access, virtual machine access, or use of default images,
the charge is the same --- you are charged for the fraction of the
resource your experiment occupies, regardless of the type of the
experiment.

The basic principle for charging service units for Chameleon resources
is to evaluate the amount of time a fraction of the resource is
unavailable to other users. If a reservation is made through the portal
for a particular date/time in the future, the user will be charged for
this time regardless of whether the reservation is actually used, as the
Chameleon scheduling system will have to drain the appropriate part of
the system to satisfy the reservation, even if the nodes requested are
not actually used. A reservation request may be cancelled in which case
no charges will apply.

### What are the project allocation sizes and limits?

In the initial phase Chameleon is operating on a "soft allocation model"
where each project, if approved, will receive a startup allocation of
20,000 SUs for six months that can be both recharged (i.e., more SUs can
be added) and renewed (i.e., the duration can be extended) via
submitting a renew/recharge request. This startup allocation value has
been designed to respond to both PI needs (i.e., cover an amount of
experimentation needed to obtain a significant result) and balance
fairness to other users (it represents roughly 1% of testbed six months'
capacity). Requests for these startup projects will receive a fast track
internal review (i.e., users can expect them to be approved within a few
days).

A PI can apply for multiple projects/allocations; however, the number of
held allocations will be taken into account during review.

As our understanding of user need grows we expect the Chameleon
allocation model to evolve towards closer reflection of those needs in
the form of more differentiated allocations that will allow us to give
larger allocations to users for longer time.

### What is the format of an allocation proposal?

A Chameleon Allocation request consists of the following components:

-   Project Title

-   Project abstract describing the proposed experiments including the
    type of resources needed; this part is required and may be published
    on Chameleon website (\~200 words)

-   Supplemental details; this is an optional extension of the project
    abstract, potentially including details that the PI does not wish to
    publish such as e.g., sources of funding that support the proposed
    research (500 words maximum)

### According to what criteria are project proposals reviewed?

Requests for projects and allocations are currently reviewed for merit
by project operators with a future move towards review by independent
review board composed of Chameleon Science Advisory Board members. The
following criteria are used:

-   PI eligibility

-   Relevance of the proposed experiment to cloud computing research;
    scientific merit and significance of the proposed experiments

-   Demonstrated need for Chameleon resources, methodology appropriate
    to the use of the Chameleon resource, justification of the requested
    allocation

-   Success of prior or other existing allocations (for renewals) in
    terms of published research results and new funding.

-   Technical feasibility (i.e, can the project succeed in the Chameleon
    environment?)

-   Any funded support for the project (optional, but we want to make
    certain that we give allocations to NSF CISE-supported cloud
    computing research!).

## Account Management Troubleshooting

### When I attempt to create an account it says my email is already registered; why does it happen?

Chameleon relies on TACC's Identity Service for account management. If
you already have a TACC account, possibly
through [XSEDE](http://www.xsede.org) or directly through TACC, then you
should use that account to log in to Chameleon. If you do not know your
TACC password, you can [reset your
password](https://www.chameleoncloud.org/password-reset). After
resetting your password you should be able to log in to Chameleon.

### I cannot log into the portal after creating an account, what should I do?

Please make sure that you have successfully confirmed your email
address. Check your junk folder as the confirmation email might have
been marked as spam.** **Double- check that you are using the password
that you provided during the registration. If you are unsure of the
password you used, you can [reset
it](https://www.chameleoncloud.org/user/password-reset/). If you still
cannot log in, please [open a
ticket](https://www.chameleoncloud.org/user/help/ticket/new/guest/).

### I have an account, but when I try to log in to OpenStack/Experiment it says my username/password is unknown, why?

You must be a member of an active project to access the
OpenStack/Experiment interface. If you are PI Eligible, you can request
a new project on the [Chameleon Project Management
page](https://www.chameleoncloud.org/user/projects). If you are not PI
Eligible, you will need to be added to an existing project by the
project PI. You can check that a project has an active Chameleon
allocation by clicking on the **View Project** button. If you are part
of a project but the allocation is *Pending*, it means your project is
under review. If you still cannot log in, please [open a ticket with our
help desk](https://www.chameleoncloud.org/user/help/).

## Appliances

### What is an appliance?

An appliance is an application packaged together with the environment
that this application requires. For example, an appliance can consists
of the operating system, libraries and tools used by the application,
configuration features such as environment variable settings, and the
installation of the application itself. Examples of appliances might
include a KVM virtual machine image, a Docker image, or a bare metal
image. Chameleon appliance refers to bare metal images that can be
deployed on the Chameleon testbed. Since an appliance captures the
experimental environment exactly, it is a key element of
reproducibility; publishing an appliance used to obtain experimental
results will go a long way to allowing others to reproduce and build on
your research easily.

To deploy distributed applications on several Chameleon instances,
complex appliances combine an image and a template describing how the
cluster should be configured and contextualized. You can read more about
them in the [Complex Appliances
documentation](https://www.chameleoncloud.org/docs/complex-appliances/).

### What is the Chameleon Appliance Catalog?

[The Chameleon Appliance
Catalog](https://www.chameleoncloud.org/appliances/) is a repository
that allows users to discover, publish, and share appliances. The
appliance catalog contains useful images of both bare metal and virtual
machine appliances supported by the Chameleon team as well appliances
contributed by users.

### How do I publish an appliance in the Chameleon Appliance Catalog?

The new Appliance Catalog allows you to easily publish and share your
own appliances so that others can discover them and use them either to
reproduce the research of others or as a basis for their own research.
 Before creating your own appliance it is advisable to review other
appliances on the [Chameleon Appliance
Catalog](https://www.chameleoncloud.org/appliances/) in order to get an
idea of the categories you will want to contribute and what others have
done. 

Once you are ready to proceed, an appliance can be contributed to
Chameleon in the following steps:

1.  Create the appliance itself. You may want to test it as well as give
    some thought to what support you are willing to provide for the
    appliance (e.g., if your group developed and supports a software
    package, the appliance may be just a new way of packaging the
    software and making it available, in which case your standard
    support channels may be appropriate for the appliance as well).

2.  Upload the appliance to the Chameleon Image Repository (Glance) and
    make the image public. In order to enter the appliance into the
    Catalog you will be asked to provide the Glance ID for the image.
    These IDs are per-cloud, so that there are three options right now:
    bare metal/CHI at University of Chicago, bare metal/CHI at TACC, and
    OpenStack/KVM at TACC. You will need to provide at least one
    appliance, but may want to provide all three.

3.  Go to the [Appliance Catalog Create Appliance web
    form](https://www.chameleoncloud.org/appliances/create/), fill out,
    and submit the form. Be prepared to provide the following
    information: a descriptive name (this sometimes requires some
    thought!), author and support contact, version, and an informative
    description. The description is a very important part of the
    appliance record; others will use it to evaluate if the appliance
    contains tools they need for their research so it makes sense to
    prepare it carefully. To make your description effective you may
    want to think of the following questions: what does the appliance
    contain? what are the specific packages and their versions? what is
    it useful for? where can it be deployed and/or what
    restrictions/limitations does it have? how should users connect to
    it / what accounts are enabled?

If you are adding a complex appliance, skip the image ID fields and
enter your template instead in the dedicated text box.

As always, if you encounter any problems or want to share with us
additional improvements we should do to the process, please do not
hesitate to [submit a ticket](https://www.chameleoncloud.org/help/). 

### How can I manage an appliance on Chameleon Appliance Catalog?

If you are the owner of the appliance, you can edit the appliance
data, such as the description or the support information. Browse to the
appliance that you want to edit and view its Details page. At the top
right of the page is an Edit button. You will be presented with the same
web form as when creating the appliance, pre-filled with the appliances
current information. Make changes as necessary and click Save at the
bottom of the page.

And finally, you can delete appliances you had made available. Browse to
the appliance that you want to delete and click Edit on the
Appliance Details page. At the bottom of the page is a Delete button.
You will be asked to confirm once more that you do want to delete this
appliance. After confirming, the appliance will be removed and no longer
listed on the Appliance Catalog.

### Why are there different image IDs for KVM\@TACC, CHI\@TACC, and CHI\@UC for the same appliance?

The three clouds forming the Chameleon testbed are fully separated, each
having its own Glance image repository. The same appliance
image uploaded to the three clouds will produce three different image
IDs.

In addition, it is sometimes needed to customize an appliance image for
each site, resulting in slightly different image files.

### Can I use Ubuntu, Debian, or another operating system rather than CentOS on bare-metal?

The recommended appliance for Chameleon is CentOS 7 (supported by
Chameleon staff), or appliances built on top of it.\
These appliances provide Chameleon-specific customizations, such as
login using the cc account, the cc-checks utility to verify hardware
against our resource registry, gathering of metrics, etc.

Since 2016, we also provide and support Ubuntu 14.04 and
16.04 appliances with the same functionality.

## Bare Metal Troubleshooting

### Why are my Bare Metal instances failing to launch?

The Chameleon Bare Metal clouds require users to reserve resources
before allowing them to launch instances. Please follow the
[documentation](https://www.chameleoncloud.org/docs/bare-metal/) and
make sure that:

1.  You have created a lease and it has started (the associated
    reservation is shown as **Active**)

2.  You have selected your reservation in the **Launch Instance** panel

If you still cannot start instances, please [open a ticket with our help
desk](https://www.chameleoncloud.org/user/help/).

## OpenStack KVM Troubleshooting

### Why are my OpenStack KVM instances failing to launch?

If you get an error stating that **No valid host was found**, it might
be caused by a lack of resources in the cloud. The Chameleon staff
continuously monitors the utilization of the testbed, but there might be
times when no more resources are available. If the error persists,
please [open a ticket with our help
desk](https://www.chameleoncloud.org/user/help/).

### Why cannot I ping or SSH to my instance?

While the possibility that the system is being taking over by nanites
should not be discounted too easily, it is always prudent to first
check for the following issues:

-   Do you have a floating IP associated with your instance? By default,
    instances do not have publicly-accessible IP addresses assigned. See
    the **Managing Virtual Machine Instances** section in the [User
    Guide](https://www.chameleoncloud.org/docs/user-guides/openstack-kvm-user-guide/).

-   Does your security group allow incoming ICMP (e.g. ping) traffic? By
    default, firewall rules do not allow ping to your instances. If you
    wish to enable it, see the **Firewall (Access Security)** section in
    the [User
    Guide](https://www.chameleoncloud.org/docs/user-guides/openstack-kvm-user-guide/).

-   Does your security group allow incoming SSH (TCP port 22)
    traffic? By default, firewall rules do not allow SSH to your
    instances. If you wish to enable it, see the **Firewall (Access
    Security)** section in the [User
    Guide](https://www.chameleoncloud.org/docs/user-guides/openstack-kvm-user-guide/).

 If none of these solve your problem, please [open a ticket with our
help desk](https://www.chameleoncloud.org/user/help/), and send us the
results of the above (and any evidence of nanites you find as well).

## Create your own SSH key pairs

The following document describes the procedure on how you can create an
SSH key pair on your Unix, Linux or Windows operating system.

### For Linux / Mac OS X

Open a terminal window:

-   In a Mac OS X system, click on your launchpad and search for
    terminal

-   In an Ubuntu system you can use the keys Ctrl+Alt+T (for desktop
    version)

Access the SSH key pairs directory; in your terminal type the command:

    $ cd ~/.ssh

Create your ssh key pair (public and private keys);  in the `.ssh`
directory, type the command:

    $ ssh-keygen

Press the enter key, then enter a name for your key.

After completing the previous step, a message stating "Enter file in
which to save the Key" will be displayed. Enter the name of your
preference. I will use in this example the name "sample-key". Then press
the enter key.

Then, you will be requested to enter a passphrase for your key. Entering
a passphrase is not necessary, so you can proceed to leave it blank and
press enter. You will receive a message "Enter same passphrase again:"
so just leave it blank and press enter.

Since we are still in the `.ssh` directory, now you can see your newly
created key by typing:

    $ ls

You will see two files:

-   sample-key (containing the private key)

-   sample-key.pub (containing the public key)

Then, provide the public key to your cloud system or individual
instance. To add a key pair in Chameleon, access one of the resource
dashboards and go the following tabs:

  Compute \> Access and Security \> Key Pairs \> Import Key Pair

In this window, you only need to provide a name for your key pair and
paste your public key pair in the "Public Key" window. To obtain the
contents of your public key, access your local `.ssh` directory through
your terminal and use the command:

    $ cat sample-key.pub

Select and copy the contents displayed starting ssh-rsa all the way to
the end. Paste these contents into the "Public Key" window mentioned
earlier.

Whenever you are creating an instance in Chameleon, you will have an
option to select the Public Key you just imported. Once selected, this
public key will be inserted into the instance's \~/.ssh/known_hosts
file. When a user attempts to connect to the instance, the private key
provided by the user will be validated against this public key in the
known_hosts file.

###### Connect to an instance from your terminal

###### After you have created a key pair and imported it in Chameleon, you can connect to any instance configured with this key pair. To do so you can use the command:

    $ ssh -i ~/.ssh/sample-key cc@<instance ip address>

The full process can be viewed in the figure below:

![image](images/ssh1.png){width="\columnwidth"}

### For Windows

First, download and install PuTTY and PuTTYgen [from
here](http://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/). Once
downloaded, opening PuTTYgen will open a key generator window, seen
below.

![image](images/putty2.png){width="\columnwidth"}

Once the program is opened, click the Generate button, seen above in
blue. PuTTY Key Generator will then ask you to move your mouse around
the program's blank space to generate "randomness" for your key.?

You may enter an optional "Key passphrase" and then confirm the
passphrase in the required areas but let us keep these spaces in blank
just to avoid complexity. An example is shown below. Note that the
passphrases are not necessary!

![image](images/putty3.png){width="\columnwidth"}

Save both the public and private keys into a file of your choice using
the "Save public key" and "Save private key" buttons; name them
something obvious like "public_key" and "private_key" so that you can
distinguish between the two.

Before closing this window, select the entire public key and copy it
with "Control-C". Please note that everything should be copied,
including "ssh-rsa". This will be used when importing the key pair to
Openstack.

At this time, the public key has been created and copied. Now you can
now follow the steps described above (starting with the line "Provide
the public key to your cloud system or individual instance") to import
the generated key pair for use with Chameleon!
