Assignments
===========

The assignments are listed in chronological order. All assignments
posted here are supposed to be conducted by you. There is a slight delay
between assignments posted in piazza and the assignments in this section
as TAs need to be integrating them. Typical delay is one business day.
Business days are defined as Mon-Fri 9am-5pm EST. Thus, it is often
better for those working on the weekends to visit piazza.com instead.
The assignments are ordered by class. Please focus on conducting the
assignments listed either here on in piazza. Just as any textbook has
many exercises, we are providing selected exercises for you as
assignments. Not every exercise mentioned in a chapter has to be done.

There can not be any confusion which assignments have been issued, as
they are all pinned in piazza and you can visit piazza.com to find out
which are assigned and listed there.

If you use a calendar system, it is in your responsibility to manage it
in such a system. This could include Google, Outlook, CANVAS, and may
others. Naturally you can also use to do lists that you can manage as
part of your github repository issues, once you have access to. This is
probably the preferred method as it allows you to add the tasks yourself
and you can check them on and off as you have conducted the assignments.

This way we teach you how to use open source technologies to coordinate
your own work with your own time management tools and constraints in
mind. This is in contrast to just using CANVAS as CANVAS does not
support open source developments in teams. Furthermore it is unlikely
that you will ever use CANVAS after you graduate. We rather like to have
you use systems that you use after you graduate. However, if you still
like to use CANVAS for alerting you, that is entirely up to you as you
can add assignments yourself to CANVAS.

All assignments are due Monday morning at 9:00 am est. No exceptions
unless otherwise specified.

Learning outcome:

-   You can manage assignments with any system you like

-   You can manage your own events in CANVAS and continue CANVAS to
    notify you of events. You are responsible of entering these events
    in CANVAS.

-   A better way of managing your tasks is to use github issues.

-   Alternatively you can use your own calendar system

Assignments E222
----------------

[\[s:e222-assignments\]]{#s:e222-assignments label="s:e222-assignments"}

All assignments posted here are supposed to be conducted by you.

### Bio Post

[\[E:e222-bio-piazza\]]{#E:e222-bio-piazza label="E:e222-bio-piazza"}
**Bio Post on Piazza.** Please post a formal bio to piazza

[\[E:e222-bio-googledocs\]]{#E:e222-bio-googledocs
label="E:e222-bio-googledocs"}

**Bio Post in Google doc.** due Fed 5, 2018.

After you have posted it to piazza copy your updated formal bios into
the following document. Make sure you use 3rd person and stay formal.
This is a formal bio. Comment on the effectiveness of using the cloud
service for this task. A the end of the document. This assignment does
not replace the post of the bio to piazza, it is used to gather all bios
in one document and to evaluate if google docs is a good tool for this
kind of task. Remember we have lots of students and google is used often
just with small groups.

 [E222 Link to google doc
$\mapsto$](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1pNK94qoRfZkill_JrGAzjd8aQ6Aar0pEXhU_Tgog0W0/edit?usp=sharing)

Learning Outcomes:

-   This is a cloud class that will use a number of cloud based systems.
    You can by using them identify differences, advantages, and
    disadvantages.

-   in contrast to IU services which typically are done via SSO the
    community cloud services provide you with many different accounts,
    you will be needing to find a system on how to manage these
    accounts.

-   Just like in a class the professor communicates to all students and
    encourages a dialog. Piazza simulates this isn some form for online
    students. It is important not to just read the piazza e-mails, but
    to actually visit every post you get by using the click here link
    and inspect the post. The answer from students to questions such as
    do i need to read all questions is the same as in a live lecture, do
    I need to listen to the instructor? I am sure you know the answer.

### Cloud Accounts

[\[E:e222-iu-google\]]{#E:e222-iu-google label="E:e222-iu-google"}

**IU Google Services.** due Feb 5, 2018

This assignment is only for those that do not yet have access to our
google documents This assignment does not have to be conducted for
anyone that has access to our google documents for bios, and the
technology list

-   What is the difference between umail.iu.edu and iu.edu? Tip: the
    answer is provided in the IU knowledge base

-   Login via the iu.edu account and not the umail.iu.edu account to
    google and open the document for the bio. Paste the bio into the
    document.

-   Explain why IU has two different google services and logins. As we
    use cloud in this class, it is important to understand this and what
    implication this has. This is not just an assignment to give you
    access to the service, but to make you think why this works like
    this.

-   Can you imagine a different way this ought to work?

Learning Outcome:

-   IU has multiple account names and e-mail addresses for different
    services. Also service names are under transition and we assume
    umail will be removed. This assignment will provide you with
    identifying which iu e-mail is used for which service. Do not
    hesitate to contact UITS for help if you can not access some
    services. Find first answers in IU Knowledge base.

-   Use important cloud services

### Account Creation

**Account Creation: github.com**

If you do not have a github.com account, go to github.com and apply for
a <https://github.com> account. Write down your account name and
remember the password. You will need the account for upcoming
assignments.

**Account Creation: futuresystems.org**

If you do not have a futuresystems.org account go to
<https://portal.futuresystems.org/user/register> and apply for an
account. Write down your account name and remember the password. You
will need the account for upcoming assignments.

**Account Creation: chameleoncloud.org**.

If you do not have a chameleon cloud account please go to
<https://www.chameleoncloud.org> and apply for an account only. Do not
apply for a project. Write down your account name and remember the
password. You will need the account for upcoming assignments.

**Account Collection Form** due Fed 5, 2018

Fill out the form so we can activate your accounts. You will need the
account for upcoming assignments.

[E222 Account Collection Form
$\mapsto$](https://goo.gl/forms/W0MdgoJoY8F6Vt9Q2)

Learning Outcome:

-   This class uses cloud computing resources. The resources listed are
    the onc e we use. Most importantly you will get a github repository
    created that you will be using for the class at
    <https://github.com/cloudmesh-community>. We can only create your
    repository if we know your github username. Please note the
    repository is viewable. As we are working as prat of this class as
    open source project it is natural that all work is done in the open.

### Entry Survey

**Entry Survey**

Please fill out the following survey ASAP as it will determine some of
the class material we prepare based on your feedback. The survey is
really simple and can be finished in under 5 minutes.
<https://goo.gl/forms/Q04FW9eBM7eyL0Lv1>

Learning Outcome:

-   We ned to identify what background you have and which resources we
    have as to potentially adapt our class material, but also to
    identify which resources you need to use in addition to your own.

### Account Setup

**Github Setup** due Feb, 2018

This exercise will assist you with your github account setup. Please
find the README.yml file in the link given next and copy it into your github
repository and fill out with your information.
<https://github.com/cloudmesh-community/hid-sample/blob/master/README.yml>
Remove the README.md file. After your `.yml` file is correctly setup you
now need to put your bio in your repository, naming it like so
`bio-lastname-firstname.tex` where lastname is your lastname and so on.
Put the `.tex` file in your repository and use the latex function
subsection{lastname,firstname} followed by the text of your bio.

Learning Outcome:

-   Setting up your github repository. Letting us know who you are.
    Filling out a form

### Eve REST Service

Read the Sections Overview of REST
(Section [\[c:rest\]](#c:rest){reference-type="ref" reference="c:rest"}
and Eve [\[s:eve-intro\]](#s:eve-intro){reference-type="ref"
reference="s:eve-intro"}).

Learning Outcome:

-   Learn how to create a simple REST service. This assignment will be
    expanded upon throughout the semester. Make sure you have a solid
    understanding of it.

Assignment catch up: please look at all previous assignments and do
them.

Learning Outcome:

-   It is not good in this class to procrastinate.

AI cloud service: This assignment will evolve, therefore we just provide
the link to it in piazza. Please visit it:

<https://piazza.com/class/jc9dcfnbi045kv?cid=34>

Learning Outcome:

-   You will be combining various technologies and practices that you
    learned in class as part of a project assignment.

-   You wil be exposed to various AI technologies and algorithms that
    you can explore further by integrating them in your project.

Assignments E516, I524, E616
----------------------------

### Bio Post

[\[E:616-bio-piazza\]]{#E:616-bio-piazza label="E:616-bio-piazza"} **Bio
Post on Piazza.** Please post a formal bio to piazza

[\[E:616-bio-googledocs\]]{#E:616-bio-googledocs
label="E:616-bio-googledocs"}

**Bio Post in Google doc.** due Feb 5, 2018

After you have posted it to piazza copy your updated formal bios into
the following document. Make sure you use 3rd person and stay formal.
This is a formal bio. Comment on the effectiveness of using the cloud
service for this task. A the end of the document. This assignment does
not replace the post of the bio to piazza, it is used to gather all bios
in one document and to evaluate if google docs is a good tool for this
kind of task. Remember we have lots of students and google is used often
just with small groups.

 [E516 Link to google doc
$\mapsto$](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ejzlKYqC3dLac8WXVpcPQsJh1j4BDqRxxgGg1cFQbeQ/edit?usp=sharing)

Learning Outcomes:

-   This is a cloud class that will use a number of cloud based systems.
    You can by using them identify differences, advantages, and
    disadvantages.

-   in contrast to IU services which typically are done via SSO the
    community cloud services provide you with many different accounts,
    you will be needing to find a system on how to manage these
    accounts.

-   As we want to avoid plagiarism within the class, IU google doc is
    used to identify and assign unique assignments to the students.
    Therefore you need to have access to IU google. You can not use your
    regular google ID. You will need to learn how to manage multiple
    google IDs if you also have a non IU google ID set up.

-   Just like in a class the professor communicates to all students and
    encourages a dialog. Piazza simulates this isn some form for online
    students. It is important not to just read the piazza e-mails, but
    to actually visit every post you get by using the click here link
    and inspect the post. The answer from students to questions such as
    do i need to read all questions is the same as in a live lecture, do
    I need to listen to the instructor? I am sure you know the answer.

### IU Google Services

[\[E:616-iu-google\]]{#E:616-iu-google label="E:616-iu-google"}

**IU Google Services:** due Feb 5, 2018

This assignment is only for those that do not yet have access to our
Google documents This assignment does not have to be conducted for
anyone that has access to our Google documents for bios, and the
technology list

-   What is the difference between umail.iu.edu and iu.edu? Tip: the
    answer is provided in the IU knowledge base

-   Login via the iu.edu account and not the umail.iu.edu account to
    google and open the document for the bio. Paste the bio into the
    document.

-   Explain why IU has two different google services and logins. As we
    use cloud in this class, it is important to understand this and what
    implication this has. This is not just an assignment to give you
    access to the service, but to make you think why this works like
    this.

-   Can you imagine a different way this ought to work?

Learning Outcome:

-   Procrastination in this class does not pay off.

-   This assignment was added for those students that did not do it in
    the first week. If you procrastinate, you will see that you have
    additional work to do. The administrative tasks must not be late as
    we need to set up and coordinate with you and if not done in time
    you lose valuable time for the class.

-   Please note that we have very few assignments, but that they need to
    be done by the deadline. Yu need to start early as they take
    multiple weeks to complete.

### Big Data Collaboration

[\[E:616-big-data-and-collaboration\]]{#E:616-big-data-and-collaboration
label="E:616-big-data-and-collaboration"} **Big data and
collaboration.** due Feb 2018

The purpose of this assignment is manifold; test the ability of Google
docs to be used in collaborative fashion by more than a small group and
report on the experience. Good Things and bad things, learn on how to
use Google docs with headings and table of contents learn how to gather
resources quickly with hyperlinks to web resources or articles and
translate them into formal academic references. Most importantly convey
some very important feature of big data.Contribute this into the
handbook for everyone's benefit (done by TAs).

Your task is to identify Big Data size related articles and Web
resources and produce a historical development of the growth of this
data

 [E516 Link to google doc
$\mapsto$](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZHNdhX_Jx7uBQo0kthSYQ6TQR8_KNbgOwH2EuqBQcjY/edit?usp=sharing)

Learning Outcome:

-   Learn about good and bad things in google docs

-   Use google docs for collaborative writing

### New Technology List

**Technology List** due Jan 29, 2018

The handbook contains a large number of technologies to which an
abstract is provided. Your task is to identify FIRST not to do an
abstract but to collaboratively gather a LIST of new technologies that
are important in Cloud and Big Data. We suggest doing this in a google
docs document first. Write Lastname, Firstname, class id behind the
technology so we know who contributed it. Indicate also if commercial,
or open source, We are mostly interested in open source activities. Keep
the list sorted by alphabet. Use a bullet so formatting is preserved


[New Technology List
$\mapsto$](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LeHGHTSBbaPXYVor0efhmi5W7JJjS7EQHABHqgRAPuU/edit?usp=sharing)


Example: OpenWhisk, <https://openwhisk.apache.org/>, open source, Gregor
von Laszewski, e616

Learning Outcome:

-   Get an overview about technologies important for the class.

-   Learn how to explore on your own account.

-   Identify good and bad technology abstracts.

-   Identify a unique technology that you explore further.

### New Technology Abstract

**Technology Abstract** due Feb 5, 2018

We have gathered with the technology list
<https://piazza.com/class/jbkvbp3ed3m2ez?cid=50> a number of
technologies that are not yet covered in the handbook or need
improvement in the handbook.

The TAs will be selecting about 5 technologies for each student. Each
student will write high-quality non-plagiarized abstracts which bibtex
references.

Learning outcomes:

-   Identify how to not plagiarize

-   Work in a large team (with coordination by TAs)

-   Use bibtex and jabref for reference management which you will be
    using for your final paper

-   Find new trends in big data and cloud computing

-   Learn how to write meaningful abstracts. Abstracts are used often to
    provide an overview of a technology. It is important to distinguish
    between an objective abstract and a paragraph that contains
    advertisement potentially written by the authors or others about a
    product. Terms such as easy to use, best, should be quantified with
    references, not just citations that mention they are easy to use,
    but potentially a statistics or a user survey if you really like to
    use these terms.

-   If possible engage in discussions with other students. Identify a
    colleague and discuss your abstracts with the colleague. Improve
    each others abstracts.

**Technology Abstract upload to GitHub** due Feb 26, 2018

Please review the plagiarism and quoting guidelines chapter in the
handbook.

The following is an example of how you upload your technology abstracts
to github.

[Upload Tech Abstract to github
$\mapsto$](https://github.com/cloudmesh-community/hid-sample/tree/master/technology)


Please direct any questions toward the TA's, additionally there is a
README available.

 [README
$\mapsto$](https://github.com/cloudmesh-community/hid-sample/blob/master/technology/README.md)


The report will be generated on Mondays at 9:00 am est and made
available by 12:00 pm est of the same day.

* <https://drive.google.com/open?id=1h6_ZRmlCRIFMHG861wSyriPzn9rXxgKT>
Learning Outcome:

-   Learn how to not plagiarize.

-   Learn how to write simple abstract.

-   Learn how to use our simple templates while just trating it as a
    form

-   Learn how to use citations

-   Learn how to upload your document to github (you will need this for
    all work from now on)

### Cloud Accounts

**Account Creation: github.com**. If you do not have a github.com
account, go to github.com and apply for a <https://github.com> account.
Write down your account name and remember the password. You will need
the account for upcoming assignments.

**Account Creation: futuresystems.org**.

If you do not have a futuresystems.org account go to
<https://portal.futuresystems.org/user/register> and apply for an
account. Write down your account name and remember the password. You
will need the account for upcoming assignments.

**Account Creation: chameleoncloud.org**.

If you do not have an account on chameleon cloud please go to
<https://www.chameleoncloud.org> and apply for an account only. Do not
apply for a project. Write down your account name and remember the
password. You will need the account for upcoming assignments.

Fill out the form so we can activate the accounts for you
<https://goo.gl/forms/W0MdgoJoY8F6Vt9Q2> You will need the account for
upcoming assignments.

Learning Outcome:

-   This class uses cloud computing resources. THe resources listed are
    the onc e we use. Most importantly you will get a github repository
    created that you will be using for the class at
    <https://github.com/cloudmesh-community>. We can only create your
    repository if we know your github username. Please note the
    repository is viewable. As we are working as prat of this class as
    open source project it is natural that all work is done in the open.

### Entry Survey

Please fill out the following survey ASAP as it will determine some of
the class material we prepare based on your feedback. The survey is
really simple and can be finished in under 5 minutes.

<https://goo.gl/forms/Q04FW9eBM7eyL0Lv1>

Learning Outcome:

-   We ned to identify what background you have and which resources we
    have as to potentially adapt our class material, but also to
    identify which resources you need to use in addition to your own.

### Account Setup

**Github Setup** due Feb, 2018

This exercise will assist you with your github account setup. Please
find the README.yml file in the link given next and copy it into your github
repository and fill out with your information.
<https://github.com/cloudmesh-community/hid-sample/blob/master/README.yml>
Remove the README.md file. After your `.yml` file is correctly setup you
now need to put your bio in your repository, naming it like so
`bio-lastname-firstname.tex` where lastname is your lastname and so on.
Put the `.tex` file in your repository and use the latex function
subsection{lastname,firstname} followed by the text of your bio.

Learning Outcome:

-   Setting up your github repository. Letting us know who you are.
    Filling out a form

### REST

Read the Sections Overview of Rest
Section [\[c:rest\]](#c:rest){reference-type="ref" reference="c:rest"}
and Eve [\[s:eve-intro\]](#s:eve-intro){reference-type="ref"
reference="s:eve-intro"}.

**Develop an Eve REST Service** due Feb, 2018

See: <https://piazza.com/class/jbku81aeli95rz?cid=55>

In this exercise, you will be developing an Eve REST service related to
Cloud Services. We will enhance this assignment throughout the semester
once we have spoken about cloud services in more detail. At this time
you are expected to write a REST service that exposes information form
your computer, such as, processor name, RAM, Disk. Please identify what
information would be useful to have and how to obtain that information
related to your operating system. Additionally identify how to integrate
dynamic data.

Learning Outcome:

-   Learn how to create a simple REST service. This assignment will be
    expanded upon throughout the semester. Make sure you have a solid
    understanding of it.

Assignment catch up: please look at all previous assignments and do
them.

Learning Outcome:

-   It is not good in this class to procrastinate.

AI cloud service: This assignment will evolve, therefore we just provide
the link to it in piazza. Please visit it:

<https://piazza.com/class/jc9dcfnbi045kv?cid=34>

Learning Outcome:

-   You will be combining various technologies and practices that you
    learned in class as part of a project assignment.

-   You wil be exposed to various AI technologies and algorithms that
    you can explore further by integrating them in your project.

### Swagger REST Services

#### PART A: Elementary Swagger Server

This is for residential students (The swagger preparation was mentioned
last week in class):

-   \(A) you are expected to have done major portions of the Swagger code gen
    assignment this includes

    -   \(1) pick of a resource you like to implement a REST service for

    -   \(2) read the swagger spec

    -   \(3) complete the spec for the resource as much as possible

    -   \(4) generate the code via swagger codegen

    This naturally means you need swagger, python and other needed
    libraries set up on your machine. We will help refining your
    resource. We will help working with you on a simple back-end
    implementation that you will improve. You will be using github for
    all of this

-   \(B) In addition to this I recommend that you

    -   \(1) find on the network how to put Raspbian on an SD card, create your
        self an md file for this as this may be different for different
        operating systems.

    -   \(2) download Raspbian on your machine so you can burn it as you will get
        5 sd cards

        In the lab, those that finish most of the swagger service will
        switch to building a cloud cluster.

    -   \(3) in the lab you will be first thing change the password to each of
        them before you put them on the network. Maybe there is a way to do this
        directly from your computer after you have put Raspbian on the sd card.
        But I do not know if that's possible.

    -   \(4) figure out how to configure Raspbian without a monitor, while just
        using an SDcard and your laptop, write an md file

In case of questions, lets engage in a discussion. If you have md files
for information already in your repo, please post URLs. This assignment
is about openly sharing. Naturally, you should not wait till someone
else does it, you should take leadership yourself.

Naturally, focus on the swagger service before starting to get more
involved with the cluster

Learning Outcome:

-   get familiar with OpenAPI/Swagger. Use a community tool to generate
    a REST service template.

#### PART A: Functional Swagger Server

**Cloud and Big Data REST Service with Swagger** due March 5, 2018 Spec
before Feb 15, 2018

-   \(A) Read the Chapters about REST and Swagger. This includes Swagger
    specification and Swagger codegen. There is also a video that introduces
    you to Swagger

-   \(B) Read the Document

    We will be collaboratively developing a new version of this document
    while not using examples as in the previous document but swagger
    OpenAPI 2.0 specifications.

-   \(C) You will pick one of the existing resources or identify a new
    resource that you would like to specify. Simply go to:

    * <https://docs.google.com/document/d/12FUtHlEzQwxc3hjyki3RbU0iMfBrcyoSMKeq3aEDPk/edit?usp=sharing>
    
    and add your name to one of the resource. Make sure there is only
    one name for each resource even if you work in a team.

-   \(D) For the resource, you chose you will be developing with Swagger a
    useful REST service related to cloud computing and Big Data.

TA's will provide more details as we will avoid that everyone develops
the same service.

You will use this specification create a swagger python service and
implement functions to enable a real implementation of the service that
is useful.

Examples:

-   \(A) develop a service to upload files to a file system with REST calls.

-   \(B) start a cluster of virtual machines on a supercomputer

-   \(C) start a cluster of virtual machines on OpenStack

Additional resources are listed in the instructor answer.

Learning Outcome:

-   Complete your first programming task, identify how to use swagger
    codegen

-   use this service throughout the class.

#### PART B: Reproducible Swagger Services

It is important to be able to reproduce the Services and not just create
a code that you can run. In order to do that we will only store the
absolute minimum information in github and autogenerate the code via the
yaml file, your controller and a Makefile that you will design.

Naturally we needed you to have understood the Swagger codegen tool
first, so you need to be familiar on how to create a swagger service.
Now that you are we can continue with this step. This will even include
removing code that you uploaded to github.

Thus, We like you to review the following and engage with us in online
meetings if this is not clear. It is actually rather simple. This is
used to prepare you for the way we expect you to deliver the final
project. It also replicates the way we have taught you to compile your
latex pdf document. Wait -- what has latex to do with swagger services?
Technically nothing conceptional we do

-   make in paper dir -\> produces latex document

-   make in swagger dir-\> produces swagger service

-   and in future make in project dir -\> produces project services

So we just use the same framework, which is very convenient!

Now let us get back to the swagger service generation:

One of the goals of this project is to create a REPRODUCIBLE framework
for generating the services. It is not enough to just develop a swagger
service. You will need to generate the service from a shell script
and/or makefile. As both technologies are available on any computer
including Windows it is your responsibility to make sure you have make
and bash installed. And use them.

Swagger-codegen applied to your yaml file will create a directory
structure. This directory structure is not to be checked into github.
Instead you will check in the makefile or shell script (bash) that
creates it.

You will see in the controller dir a number of `controller_*.py` files,
you will copy them into your github dir. The names of the controller
files can be automatically specified based on the content in your yaml
file.

Thus you will have a directory with the following contents, replace 000
with the id you have

    hid-sp18-000/swagger/Makefile
    hid-sp18-000/swagger/conroller_a.py
    hid-sp18-000/swagger/conroller_b.py

We assume that swagger-codegen is a shell variable allowing you to run
swagger-codegen.

This could be different on different systems. You will be documenting
this for your system. On macOS this is trivial as you just use brew to
install and

    export SWAGGER-CODEGEN=swagger-codegen

will typically work. On other systems you may have to specify the jar
file. You will be using an environment variable regardless which OS you
are on

If you use a Makefile you will be defining the following tags

-   make clean -- removes the code generated

-   make service -- creates the swagger service from the yaml file and
    places the controllers in the appropriate directory

-   make start -- starts the service

-   make stop -- stops the service

-   make test -- executes a number of tests against the service

You are allowed as part of this use nose or any other unit test.

Learning Outcome:

-   Learn about code management, Makefiles, and create only the absolute
    needed code.

-   Learn about the management of the code in github and avoid checking
    in all unnecessary files. This is how we expect you develop your
    project.

-   Use this service throughout the class.

#### Swagger Container

STEP 3 generating Swagger REST Containers

After you have finished the STEP 2 in the Swagger series of exercises,
You will now generate a container. However, you will neither check in
the container in docker hub nor into github.

Instead, you will generate a container with a Dockerfile. You will add
to your makefile the tag

    make container -- which will generate the container form the
                      Dockerfile. Your container will be named cloudmesh-<YOURTOPIC>

Where topic is how you named your service

As we will start multiple services from multiple students you need to
have a proper namespace in the yaml specification file This may be
different for different people. For example

    cloudmesh/var/<id>
    cloudmesh/aws/vm/<id>
    cloudmesh/google/vm/<id>
    cloudmesh/openstack/vm/<id>
    cloudmesh/filter/<id>

Naturally, if you have better url suggestions please integrate, however,
we need a unique prefix for each service so if we were to combine them
we can do that.

Reply to this followup discussion

Learning Outcome:

-   Learn how to use a simple container.

### Technology Paper

**Technology Paper** due March 20, 2018

-   \(A) pick one of the technologies identified by you or if you see a hid
    that has already picked a technology for this assignment you can also
    pick one form that students list also

-   \(B) write a LaTeX paper about the technology. Make sure not to
    plagiarize. The maximum number of quotes is about 25% if needed. Please
    see the scientific writing section

WE RECOMMEND YOU GET STARTED ON THIS RIGHT AWAY AS YOU ALSO WILL HAVE TO
DO A SECTION AND THE FINAL PROJECT.

Additional details can be found here:
<https://github.com/cloudmesh-community/hid-sample/blob/master/paper-instructions.md>

Learning Outcome:

-   Learn how to write an extended abstract (contrasting an abstract in
    a paper).

-   Learn about LaTeX and bibtex

-   Learn how to use our trivial template nad fill it out

-   Learn how to use github for paper writing

-   Learn that because LaTeX supports structure rather than WYSIWYG the
    paper quality is usually higher than in Word

-   Learn that all images and tables and references are not counting
    towards paper length and they will be placed at the end of the paper

-   Read our LaTeX section

-   In your final project report it is likely you need to write similar
    to this report 2 pages to introduce the project

### Sections

**Sections** due March 26, 2018

**This is for online and residential students.**

Residential students with a substantial number of sections explaining  
such details as installing a
kubernetes cluster on PI or docker swarm or some other larger topic are
exempt from this assignment. However, if you are working towards an A+
consider adding an additional sections.

We like you to pick a technology and develop for this technology a
section. The sections can be written either in markdown or in LaTeX.
However, when we like that you do not use enumerations for steps that
you document. Instead use sentences such as

First, we do

Second, we need to

Next, we implement

Please use sections, subsections and so on to the structure.
Additionally please create a separate directory for images called
**images** where all the images are stored like the following structure.

    hid-sp18-000/tutorial/images
    hid-sp18-000/tutorial/tutorial.tex

DO NOT USE SCREENSHOTS FOR CODE EXAMPLES OR CAPTURE OF THE TERMINAL
OUTPUT. USE ASCII and put it either in `lstlisting` in latex, or in an
indented codeblock in markdown. Please do not add python, bash or other
markings to your codeblock, as we need real simple markdown if you chose
that. Make sure text in LaTeX.

We will make additional suggestions for section topics in the document
in which we collect the section list. We will also indicate for these
suggesting a maximum number of students able to work together on a section or chapter.

 [Section
List$\mapsto$](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1L2-wYc7S7hb5u6ZNtKpTvlXqKMkqq-B38hlaBCw-eww/edit?usp=sharing)

Learning Outcome:

-   Learn how to write in markdown a section

-   Learn how to properly use indentation and verbatim

-   Learn Markdown is not about WYSIWYG

-   In your project you will need to provide 
    section in which you explain to execute your project. This
    assignment helps you on how to do that.

### Project

The policies and format about the project are discussed in Sections
[\[s:project-format\]](#s:project-format){reference-type="ref"
reference="s:project-format"} and
[\[s:paper-rules\]](#s:paper-rules){reference-type="ref"
reference="s:paper-rules"}.

Some project ideas for this years class are listed in Section
[\[s:project-ideas\]](#s:project-ideas){reference-type="ref"
reference="s:project-ideas"}. Some previous projects are listed in
previous volumes that you can find in Section
[\[S:p-int\]](#S:p-int){reference-type="ref" reference="S:p-int"}.

It is purpose of this class that you define your own project first.
There should not be an overlap between other projects. All projects
should be approved. Two month before the project deadline the class was
informed via Piazza to think about the project and engage in a
discussion about the topic. A one page snapshot of the project paper is
due on April 2nd as posted in piazza.

The final paper is due Fri 4/27 9am. This is a hard deadline.

Learning Outcome:

-   Learn how to do a project

-   Learn how to avoid checking in unnecessary executables, data and
    just focus on the source you modify. This includes not to clone or
    copy other peoples work, but to leverage downloads.

-   Learn how to write a project report

-   Learn how to do a benchmark

-   Learn how to communicate your effort in written English.

-   Leverage your experience from writing the 2 page paper

-   Leverage your experience from writing your REST service

-   Leverage your experience from writing in LaTeX and using bibtex

-   leverage your experience to write an installation section in
    markdown for your project

-   Learn how to use virtual machines or containers or both.

Assignments I523
----------------

### Open Source Efforts

**Linux Foundation Project Summary** Go to the Web Page of the Linux
Foundation, pick a projects (the TAs may randomly assign it for you).
For the project write within one week a 1-page summary using our Paper
format. We recommend that you use sharelatex. Please use
\<iuusername\>\@iu.edu as login.

The link for the project is located at

Make sure that you use our template. Make sure your use bibtex
resources. Focus on the Project, you only have one back to write. Images
, references, and tables to not count towards the one page. All images
will be placed at the end of the paper by our template. You can write in
a group, but each member must be lead on one paper. You can use
sharelatex to write the paper collaboratively.

Learning outcomes:

-   Learn about open source linux projects

-   Learn how to use sharelatex

-   Learn how easy it is to write a paper in latex while using our
    template

-   Learn how to do citations and organize them in bibtex

**Linux Foundation Project Review** You will be assigned by the TA three
papers (it can not be a paper that you write as part of a group). You
will write constructive review to improve the technology summary.
Learning outcomes:

-   Learn from others

-   Learn how to use sharelatex

-   Learn how easy it is to write a paper in latex while using our
    template

-   Learn how to do citations and organize them in bibtex

**Linux Foundation Project Summary Improvements** Integrate the
improvement suggestions in your paper. Your paper will have 3 reviews
from students. Improve your paper.

**Linux Foundation Project Summary Extension** Integrate the improvement
suggestions in your paper. Your paper will have 3 reviews from students.
Improve your paper.
