Preface
=======



Overview
--------



### Registrar

Intelligent Systems Engineering E516 Engineering Cloud Computing

Credits: 3

Prerequisite(s): Experience with Windows or Linux using Java and
scripts.

This course covers basic concepts on programming models and tools of
cloud computing to support data intensive science applications. Students
will get to know the latest research topics of cloud platforms, parallel
algorithms, storage and high level language for proficiency with a
complex ecosystem of tools that span many disciplines.

### Cloud Computing

The course covers all aspects of the cloud architecture stack, from
Software as a Service (large-scale biology and graphics applications),
Platform as a Service (MapReduce (Hadoop), Iterative MapReduce (Twister)
and NoSQL (HBase)), to Infrastructure as a Service (low-level
virtualization technologies).

### Class Summary

In this course you will learn basic concepts in Cloud Computing,
including how to write your own software using key cloud programming
models and tools to support data mining and data analysis applications.

### Course Organization

This course is powered by Latex and ReStructuredText but is conducted in
a more structured fashion with a mix of recorded lectures, programming
labs and forum discussions. Each week we will post on Canvas the
instructions as to work to be done. Note all grading and forum
discussion will use Canvas and Piazza.

### What Should I Know?

Cloud Computing online is a programming intensive course. It has similar
requirements to the CS graduate level residential version. Students are
expected to have weekly (or biweekly) programming homework. General
programming experience with Windows or Linux using Java (2-3 years) and
scripts is required. A background in parallel and cluster computing is a
plus, although not necessary.

### What Will I Learn?

At the end of this course, you will have learned key concepts in cloud
computing and enough programming to be able to solve data analysis
problems on your own.

### Class Projects

The class has several projects that will allow students to get firsthand
experience with the technologies taught here. Projects are performed on
VirtualBox Appliances or academic clouds like FutureSystems.

### Course Schedule

-   Welcome Survey

-   Unit 1 - Cloud Computing Fundamentals

-   Unit 2 - How to Run VMs (IaaS)

-   Unit 3 - How to Run MapReduce (PaaS)

-   Unit 4 - How to Run Iterative MapReduce (PaaS)

-   Mid-course assessment

-   Unit 5 - How to Store Data (NoSQL)

-   Unit 6 - Internet of Things

-   Unit 7 - How to Build a Search Engine (SaaS)

-   Post-course assessment

-   Post-course Survey

-   Test-course assessment

### Class Progress Distribution

The course progress is the percentage of mandatory items completed for
the course.

-   Participation (10%)

-   Exams (50%) - Midterm (20%), Final (30%)

-   Written Assignments (10%)

-   Exercises (30%) - 8 Exercises:

    -   Hadoop Statistics (5)

    -   Hadoop PageRank (10)

    -   Hadoop Blast (10)

    -   HBase WordCount (5)

    -   Building an Inverted Index (10)

    -   Build a Search Engine (20)

    -   Harp PageRank (20)

    -   Harp Mini-batch K-Means (20)

### Lesson Order

Lessons in this course will be uploaded on a weekly basis. The
difficulty of the topics covered in these online lectures is
demonstrated by way of a color coding system. *Green* is basic, *Yellow*
is intermediate, and *Red* is advanced. We will build up to more
difficult concepts as the class progresses.

### Course Projects

Take part in online assignments that will teach you the course material
in hands-on examples. You will apply actual code designed to calculate
website page ranking, word count, and even build your own search engine.
More than a dry tutorial, this is your chance to find out how some of
the most widely used applications on the Internet work on a fundamental
level.
