 

# Docker Hub {#s:dockerhub}

Docker Hub is a cloud-based registry service which provides a
"centralized resource for container image discovery, distribution and
change management, user and team collaboration, and workflow automation
throughout the development
pipeline" [@hid-sp18-405-tutorial-dockerhub-overview]. There are both
private and public repositories. Private repository can only be used by
people within their own organization.

Docker Hub is "hardcoded into Docker as the default registry", which
means that the docker pull command will initialize the download
automatically from Docker
Hub [@hid-sp18-405-tutorial-dockerhub-blog-use]. It allows users to
download (pull), build, test and store their images for easy deployment
on any host they may have [@hid-sp18-405-tutorial-dockerhub-overview].

## Create Docker ID and Log In 

Log-in is not necessary for pulling Docker images from the Hub but
necessary for push images. However when you want to store images on
Docker hub you need to create an account. To create an account on Docker
Hub, please visit the [Docker Hub Web page](https://hub.docker.com/).
The free service will give you only one private Docker Hub Repository.
In case you need more, you will need to upgrade to a paid plan.

For the rest of the tutorial we assume that you use the environment
variable DUSER to indicate you username. It is easiset if you set it in
your shell with

    export DUSER=<PUT YOUR DOCKER USERNAME HERE> 

## Searching for Docker Images

There are two ways to search for Docker images on Docker Hub:

One way is to use the Docker command line tool. You could open an
terminal and run the *docker search* command. For example, the following
command searches for centOS images:

    docker search centos

you will see output similar to:

    | NAME            | DESCRIPTION        | STAR | OFFICIAL | AUTOMATED |
    |-----------------|--------------------|------|----------|-----------|
    | centos          | Official CentOS    | 4130 | [OK]     |           |
    | ansible/centos7 | Ansible on Centos7 | 105  |          | [OK]      |
    ...

Official repositories are public, certified repositories from vendors
and contributors to Docker. They contain Docker images from vendors like
Canonical, Oracle, and Red Hat that you can use as the basis to build
your applications and services. There is one official repository in this
list, the first one, *centos*.

The other way is to search via the *Web Search Box* at the top of the
Docker web page by typing the keyword. The search results can be sorted
by number of stars, number of pulls, and whether it is an official
image. Then for each search result, you can verify the information of
the image by clicking the *details* button to make sure this is the
right image that fits your needs.

## Pulling Images

A particular image (take centos as an example) could be pulled using the
following command:

    docker pull centos

Tags could be used to specify the image to pull. By default the tag is
latest, therefore the previous command is the same as the following:

    docker pull centos:latest

You could use a different tag:

    docker pull centos:6

To check the existing local docker images, run the following command:

    docker images

The results show:

    | REPOSITORY | TAG    | IMAGE ID     | CREATED     | SIZE  |
    |------------|--------|--------------|-------------|-------|
    | centos     | latest | 26cb1244b171 | 2 weeks ago | 195MB |
    | centos     | 6      | 2d194b392dd1 | 2 weeks ago | 195MB |

## Create Repositories

In order to push images to Docker Hub, you need to have a repository
created.

When you first create a Docker Hub user, you see a *Get started with
Docker Hub* screen, from which you can click directly into *Create
Repository*. You can also use the *Create* menu to *Create Repository*.
When creating a new repository, you can choose to put it in your Docker
ID namespace, or that of any organization that you are in the owners
team [@hid-sp18-405-tutorial-dockerhub-repository].

As an example, we created a repository cloudtechnology with the name
space `$DUSER`. Hence the full name is `$DUSER`/cloudtechnology

## Pushing Images

To push an image to the repository created, the following steps could be
followed:

-   Log into Docker Hub from the command line by specifying the username

          docker login --username=$DUSER

    Enter the password when prompted. If everything worked you will get
    a message similar to:

          Login Succeeded

-   Check image ID using:

          docker images

    the result looks similar to:

          | REPOSITORY    | TAG    | IMAGE ID     | CREATED     | SIZE   |
          |---------------|--------|--------------|-------------|--------|
          | cloudmesh-nlp | latest | 1f26a5f7a1b4 | 10 days ago | 1.79GB |
          | centos        | latest | 26cb1244b171 | 2 weeks ago | 195MB  |
          | centos        | latest | 2d194b392dd1 | 2 weeks ago | 195MB  |

    and the image with ID 1f26a5f7a1b4 is the one to push to Docker Hub.

-   Tag the image

          docker tag 1f26a5f7a1b4 $DUSER/cloudmesh:firsttry

    In general, a good choice for a tag is something that will help you
    understand what this container should be used in conjunction with,
    or what it represents.

-   Now the list of images will look something like

          | REPOSITORY       | TAG      | IMAGE ID     | CREATED  | SIZE   |
          |------------------|----------|--------------|----------|--------|
          | cloudmesh-nlp    | latest   | 1f26a5f7a1b4 | 10 d ago | 1.79GB |
          | $DUSER/cloudmesh | firsttry | 1f26a5f7a1b4 | 10 d ago | 1.79GB |
          | centos           | latest   | 26cb1244b171 | 2 w ago  |  195MB |
          | centos           | latest   | 2d194b392dd1 | 2 w ago  |  195MB |

-   Push the image to the repository

          docker push $DUSER/cloudmesh

    It shows something similar to:

          The push refers to repository [docker.io/$DUSER/cloudmesh]
          18f9479cfc2c: Pushed 
          e9ddee98220b: Pushed 
          1d3522002590: Pushed 
          e3ab85ae555e: Pushed 
          bae105d9c555: Pushed 
          6b0c2fb2fe92: Pushed 
          c33cd8954775: Pushed 
          ecafeebb22db: Pushed 
          e0dbd107774a: Pushed 
          8cb07daea6f6: Pushed 
          db584c622b50: Mounted from library/ubuntu 
          52a7ea2bb533: Mounted from library/ubuntu 
          52f389ea437e: Mounted from library/ubuntu 
          88888b9b1b5b: Mounted from library/ubuntu 
          a94e0d5a7c40: Mounted from library/ubuntu 
          firsttry: digest: sha256:305b0f911077d9d6aab4b447b... size: 3463

    Now the image is available on Docker Hub and everyone can pull it
    since it is a public repository by using command:

          docker pull $DUSER/cloudmesh

## Resources

-   The offical [Overview of Docker
    Hub](https://docs.docker.com/docker-hub/#use-official-repositories)
    [@hid-sp18-405-tutorial-dockerhub-overview]

-   Information about using docker repositories can be found at
    [Repositories on Docker
    Hub](https://docs.docker.com/docker-hub/repos/)
    [@hid-sp18-405-tutorial-dockerhub-repository]

-   [How to Use
    DockerHub](https://www.linux.com/blog/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/1/how-use-dockerhub)
    [@hid-sp18-405-tutorial-dockerhub-blog-use]

-   [Docker Tutorial
    Series](https://rominirani.com/docker-tutorial-series-part-4-docker-hub-b51fb545dd8e)[@hid-sp18-405-tutorial-dockerhub-series-part-4]
